## Decision compels

This sort of [[compel]] suggests the answer to a decision your character has to make. If your character is `Princess of Alaria`, for example, you may need to stay to lead the defense of the Royal Alarian Castle rather than fleeing to safety. Or if you have a `Defiant Streak a Mile Wide`, maybe you can't help but mouth off to the Dean of Discipline when he questions you.

A decision is a kind of compel that is internal to the character. It happens because of a decision he makes, hence the name. It looks like this:

- You have ____ aspect in ____ situation, so it makes sense that you'd decide to ____. This goes wrong when ____ happens.

> [!info]- Examples
> Landon has `The Manners of a Goat` while trying to impress a dignitary at a royal ball, so it makes sense that he'd decide to share some boorish, raunchy humor and/or commentary. This goes wrong when he discovers she's the princess of this country, and his offense is tantamount to a crime.
>
> Cynere has `Tempted by Shiny Things` while touring an ancient museum, so it makes sense that she'd decide to, ahem, liberate a couple of baubles for her personal collection. This goes wrong when she discovers that the artifacts are cursed, and she's now beholden to the Keepers of the Museum if she wants the curse lifted.
>
> Zird has `Not the Face!` when he gets challenged to a barfight, so it makes sense that he'd decide to back down from the challenge. This goes wrong when the rest of the patrons decide he's a coward and throw him unceremoniously out into the street.

So the real dramatic impact from these kinds of compels is not what decision the character makes, most of the time---it's how things go wrong. Before something goes wrong, the first sentence could be a prelude to making a skill roll or simply a matter of roleplaying. The complication that the decision creates is really what makes it a compel.  GMs, remember that a player is ultimately responsible for everything that the character says and does. you can offer decision-based compels, but if the player doesn't feel like the decision is one that the character would make, don't force the issue by charging a [[fate point]]. instead, negotiate the terms of the compel until you find a decision the player is comfortable making, and a complication that chains from that decision instead. if you can't agree on something, drop it.  The decision part should be very self-evident, and something a player might have been thinking about doing anyway. The same goes for players trying to compel NPCs or each other's PCs---make sure you have a strong mutual understanding of what that NPC or other character might do before proposing the compel.

Players, if you need [[fate point]]s, this is a really good way of getting them. If you propose a decision-based compel for your character to the GM, then what you're basically asking is for something you're about to do to go wrong somehow. You don't even have to have a complication in mind---simply signaling the GM should be enough to start a conversation. GMs, as long as the compel isn't weak (as in, as long as there's a good, juicy complication), you should go with this. If the compel is weak, poll the rest of the group for ideas until something more substantial sticks.If you offer a decision-based compel, and no one can agree on what the decision part should be, it shouldn't cost a [[fate point]] to counter---just drop it. Countering a decision-based compel should only mean that the "what goes wrong" part doesn't happen.  GMs, remember that a player is ultimately responsible for everything
that the character says and does. You can offer decision-based compels, but if the player doesn't feel like the decision is one that the character would make, don't force the issue by charging a [[fate point]]. Instead, negotiate the terms of the compel until you find a decision the player is comfortable making, and a complication that chains from that decision instead. If you can't agree on something, drop it.