---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:09
---

Frontier Spirit

# Stunts

Your character can get two special stunts: _ritual_ stunts and _high
technology_ stunts. Mediums always have at least one ritual, and may
take a second as one of their two free stunts. If you have any
non-mediums, they must have at least one high technology stunt.

### Ritual

Every medium has at least one means of accessing the otherworld. You
never need to roll to access the otherworld; whether or not you can is
almost never an interesting question. Instead, you will use a ritual
stunt.

A ritual stunt is either a _channeling_ ritual or _projection_ ritual.
Each type grants a different means of accessing the otherworld, with
different applications, so your group will want a mix. Each of your
ritual stunts can be used once per session.

- **Channeling** lets you reach out to a spirit on the other side and
  allow it to contact the material world. It's less risky than
  projection, but it's also much more specific. You can only reach one
  spirit-facet with it per ritual, and you must be within the
  territory of the spirit whose facet you are attempting to reach.
  It's most useful for making initial contact with a spirit or
  following up.
- **Projection** lets you and others who engage in the ritual with you
  journey through the otherworld with your minds. It's potentially
  dangerous, and can result in permanent harm, but allows for longer
  and deeper engagement than channeling. You can spend hours immersed
  in the otherworld, seeking and speaking to facets of a spirit, and
  you can even travel short distances to the territories of
  neighboring spirits by descending into deeper layers of the
  otherworld and then traveling back up.

To use a ritual stunt, you need two things: the ritual itself and the
right circumstance.

- **The ritual** is some specific act or ceremony you undertake to
  invoke the otherworld. A ritual provides a standard set of steps, a
  succinct description, that bridges the gap between the normal
  everyday and the world of the spirits. The purpose of the ritual is
  not to be difficult, risky, or challenging, but to clearly demarcate
  the borderline, to call attention to the crossover into the mystical
  world. It's not something you can do by accident or while doing
  something else. It's something you have to do deliberately, with
  purpose, on its own.
- **The circumstance** is some precondition to contacting the other
  otherworld. It provides a foundation for your ritual, setting the
  stage for the steps that follow. It should have thematic ties to the
  ritual it enables, and should be outside of normal experience. It
  should be the kind of thing you need to seek out, or to specifically
  set up or prepare for, rather than something that can just happen.

Once you choose your ritual and circumstance, write down your ritual
stunt like this:

> Once per session, you can **[channel spirits from** or **project
> into]** the otherworld by **[description of ritual]** when
> **[description of circumstance]**.

#### Example Rituals

**Deep meditation.** Possibly the simplest ritual, and commonly used for
both projection and channeling. It involves a long period of stillness
and concentration, focusing on a single point. Incense, the recitation
of mantras, or other olfactory or auditory aids may be incorporated.

**Dance.** Practically the opposite of meditation in every way,
involving strenuous physical activity. It's almost always accompanied by
music, and might also require ceremonial costumes. Dance is more
commonly used for projection than channeling, with the dancers
journeying into the spirit world as they collapse at the conclusion of
the dance.

**Divination.** A form of channeling, unique in that it communicates
with a spirit indirectly. Rather than allowing the spirit to speak, the
divination channels the spirit's responses into material objects or
creatures: cards, bones or straw, the behavior of a holy animal or
familiar. There's a multitude of divination methods, and all can work
for the right person in the right circumstances.

**Offering.** Burning, dissolving, or leaving out some significant plant
or animal remnant. For some mediums, the offerings they provide are
always the same and substitutions don't work for them at all, which can
lead to trouble when a spirit finds that offering abhorrent. Other
mediums must offer something that holds significance to the spirit they
seek to contact or whose territory they're in. Offering rituals provide
the clearest indication of the power of the spirits, as the offering
vanishes at the culmination of the ritual.

#### Example Conditions

**Near deep water.** Given the conceptual ties between bodies of water
and the otherworld, this is a common circumstance for rituals,
especially projection rituals. This is often coupled with rituals that
involve bathing in, wading into, or immersion in the water.

**At noon.** Or dusk, or dawn, or midnight. Significant moments during
the daily cycle represent moments of balance (for noon or midnight) or
transition (for dusk or dawn), forming a firm foundation for ritual.

**Up high.** Or down low. Peaks, cliffs, caves, and pits all represent
isolation from the everyday world---whether by lifting above all else or
by surrounding with walls of stone---which cuts the practitioner off
from the norm and opens the way to further ritual.

**In a holy place.** This might seem self-explanatory, but isn't always
suitable for all mediums. Not only can such a place be tricky to find,
but many mediums also report feeling like they generate "interference."
Those who _can_ use them effectively generally prefer the area around a
spirit's idol or a long-established temple, though the latter is
extremely rare on a colony.

### High Technology

Each character can have at most one stunt representing a piece of "space
opera" technology, above and beyond the capabilities of 21st-century
science. Characters can cobble together jerry-rigged high-tech devices
using [[create advantage]] with Craft or Science, or borrow or lease them
with [[Contacts]] or [[Resources]]. A stunt gives permanent access and
ownership, and guarantees reliability.

In the interest of maintaining tone and a sense of place, there are some
limits on what high technology can do:

- **No self-reproducing or self-repairing machines.** High technology
  is limited because it's beyond the colonists' ability to construct
  and difficult to maintain. Devices that can copy or maintain
  themselves would be essentially unlimited in their availability.
- **No matter-energy converters or replicators.** The settlement
  effort is driven by the need to grow food, exploit resources, and
  establish an industrial base. Being able to create material or food
  out of thin air sabotages these drives.
- **No modern communication.** Telecommunications infrastructure is
  slow, unreliable, and inconvenient. Most communities are dependent
  on a handful of overburdened satellites. Characters cannot have
  portable devices that permit real-time video or voice communication
  or remote information access from anywhere on the planet.
  Telecommunications devices must be local, stationary, or
  asynchronous---something that lets you leave a message rather than
  chatting, in essence.
- **No teleportation.** Beaming people or objects around trivializes
  any kind of travel or logistical obstacle. It's a little bit too
  clean, and undercuts the local concerns and scale of the game.
  Teleporters might be a thing elsewhere, or they might not. Either
  way, they're not viable on a new colony world.

Write a stunt describing how your high technology helps you exercise
your skills. Often this gives you a rules exception or a new action for
a skill, but it could be a bonus. Your technology isn't a panacea,
though---it can only be used in certain situations.

Your gear has an aspect as well, which can be invoked or compelled based
on its normal function and limitations. You can give this aspect the
same name as the stunt or embellish it a bit.

#### Examples of High Technology Stunts

**Ray Gun:** Using your ray gun, you get +2 to [[Shoot]] attacks against
targets at least one zone away.

**Sonic Excavator:** Using your sonic excavator, you can carve a path
through inanimate material with Science.

**Aircar:** Using your aircar, you can fly very quickly at tree-top
height. You can transport up to four other people and a small amount of
cargo, but can't fly with anything really heavy.

**Autodoc:** When using your autodoc to treat wounds or disease with
Science, once per session you can improve the outcome by one step:
failure to tie, tie to success, or success to success with style. If you
initially succeeded with style, you can create an aspect with one free
invocation instead of gaining a boost.

**Handheld Expert System:** Once per session, you can use your handheld
expert system to automatically succeed on creating an advantage with
Science against passive opposition equal to or less than your Science
rank.

