---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:09
---

Frontier Spirit

# Spirits

A spirit is a distant entity, dwelling in the depths of the otherworld
never appearing directly. It acts through its _facets_: inhabitants of
the upper levels of the otherworld that at first seem to exist and act
independently, but which are joined to a greater whole. Each facet is
invested in a part of the spirit's portfolio, linking it to the spirit.
Facets know they are part of a larger, deeper being, and the whole of
the spirit shares the experiences, memories, and knowledge of each
facet, though not always quickly or clearly. One facet might speak
clearly of another's existence, while another might have a distorted or
partial understanding of its other-selves.

GMs, to build a spirit, first design the spirit itself, then build the
facets of it your PCs will be interacting with.

Each spirit has a _portfolio_ which sustains it or comforts it when
reflected by the material world in the land it claims. The elements of a
spirit's portfolio are abstract and conceptual, and can be reflected or
embodied by a wide variety of situations or things. A spirit's portfolio
is represented by a list of aspects, its _portfolio aspects_.

Each facet of the spirit will possess some of these portfolio aspects,
which influence and direct its behavior and provide a link to its
greater whole. Facets strive to encourage things that exemplify the
portion of their spirit's portfolio that they partake in. These
portfolio aspects can be compelled when that element is harmed or
transgressed against, provoking retaliation from the facet. A facet's
portfolio aspects can be invoked for or against the facet as well.

> A facet has the portfolio aspect [Though Turned Aside Your Path Cannot
> Be Denied]---representing its area's tendency toward gusting
> winds---shared with its spirit. The facet could invoke this aspect to
> help it get around some mediums who are trying to corral the facet for
> further discussion. However, if the facet ever tries to stand its
> ground, that aspect could be invoked or compelled against it.

### Creating the Portfolio

Start with your game's issues---the problems that dog your world and
characters, and the particular location or locations where the spirit is
found. These are also the problems that are agitating this spirit,
motivating it to cause more trouble. The portfolio answers the question
of "Why?"

Imagine the location central to the adventure and those nearby. What
were they like before people came here, and what are they like now? Pick
out symbols, concepts, and trends that seem significant, and consider
how your game's issues might challenge them. Is the action of a current
issue changing the concrete form of a symbol, or challenging it by
bringing in contrary concepts? What about the activity that aims to
bring about an impending issue, or that presages or foreshadows it? If
you can see how an issue and a concept are opposed, add that as an
aspect to the spirit's portfolio. Otherwise, set it aside and move on.

**You don't need to tie a portfolio aspect to every issue, but try to
wind up with about one portfolio aspect per issue.** Some issues might
even challenge two or even three portfolio aspects. More than three is
risky---at any given time, you'll likely have two active campaign
issues, between two and four location issues, and possibly one or two
other issues floating around. Having multiple portfolio aspects that
interact with different issues will create a situation that's more
challenging to mediate than a single portfolio aspect that's impinged
upon by a variety of issues.

Don't throw away the portfolio aspects you set aside. Pick a few of
them---about as many as those you've already picked---and make them part
of the spirit's portfolio too. Those with some superficial similarity to
aspects linked to an issue give you opportunities to complicate your
mediums' failures with confusion and misunderstanding. Others provide
additional detail, or offer hooks that your mediums can use to persuade
or reign in a spirit.

### Facets

A spirit's facets are, for the most part, built as any other NPC. Choose
whether they are a nameless, supporting, or main NPC, allocate their
skills, and create any appropriate stunts.

- **Nameless facets** are the least parts of a spirit's being, those
  closest to the mundane world. They're extremely likely to appear
  during any kind of immanent episode. As each facet is so weak, it
  represents a focused, specific slice of the spirit's being. These
  facets are typically servants and workers for more potent facets,
  stamped-out copies with very little to distinguish them. They can
  only make small changes to the material world but can do so very
  easily, so they spend most of their time making tweaks throughout a
  spirit's domain.
- **Supporting facets** are comparable to ordinary people, with
  complex, individual personalities, quirks, and breadth of ability.
  It takes a more significant episode of immanence to admit them to
  the material world, but their impact is commensurately greater.
  Being more complicated, a supporting facet partakes of more of its
  parent's nature, potentially creating a strong drive or internal
  conflict. Some appear as otherworldly versions of ordinary people or
  animals, while others have entirely unfamiliar forms. Fairies, imps,
  and other mythical mischief-makers are common forms, with
  personalities to match.
- **Main facets** are the deepest form of spirit that mediums are
  capable of interacting with. They rarely appear during episodes of
  immanence---they must be deliberately sought out. They inherit a
  wide swath of a spirit's being, and consequently wield a great deal
  of power. Their forms are fantastic---giant animals, animate
  landscapes, and mythological beings.

#### Facet Aspects

A nameless facet gets one aspect, while supporting and main facets get
more, as needed. Start writing aspects for your facet by picking from
its parent spirit's portfolio. No one facet should cover the spirit's
full portfolio. If you need more aspects for a facet, expand the
spirit's portfolio. Some facets have rewritten versions of their
spirit's portfolio aspects. These facets are usually injured, drifting
away from their parent somehow, or play the role of devil's advocate or
antagonist, testing the spirit's other facets. These aspects of the
facet, like the spirit's, are called portfolio aspects.

Once you've got a facet's portfolio aspects sorted out, write an
additional aspect for it that distinguishes its role and nature.

Facets that share aspects of a spirit's portfolio also share experiences
with each other. This takes some time, and is unpredictable but
inevitable. A facet's power confers authority upon its experiences:
Greater facets view isolated experiences of lesser ones as an ordinary
person might view behavior during a night of drinking, celebration, or
holiday---atypical and perhaps slightly embarrassing. Lesser facets
treat the experiences and opinions of greater facets as definitive.
Facets that don't share aspects often seek each other out in the
otherworld to gossip and share news, providing a "side channel" to the
spirit's main distribution of experiences.

To convince a spirit to stop causing trouble and to get the mediation to
stick, mediums must often reach an accord with a few powerful facets or
many, many weaker ones. The former is inevitably easier.

#### Facet Skills

Facets can have any skill that an ordinary person can, though they are
most likely to have Deceit, [[Empathy]], [[Provoke]], [[Rapport]], or [[Will]]. Physical
skills can be used to affect anything in the facet's presence. Usually
these are things in the otherworld---either other spirits or a medium's
projection---but during immanent episodes a facet can use these skills
to affect the mundane world. [[Contacts]] or [[Resources]] are rare, but could
represent allies in the otherworld or a large reach of useful
otherworldly territory under the facet's control, or they could
represent some material influence---worshippers or an established
shrine.

#### Facet Stress and Consequences

Facets have stress tracks and sometimes consequences. However, they
can't be killed or otherwise permanently destroyed by getting taken out
in a physical conflict. Instead, they become detached, distant from the
material world and from their parent spirit. A facet that has been taken
out in a physical conflict is bound and banished until the next major
milestone. When it returns, its view of the world is shaped by other
facets that share its portfolio aspects, often leading the facet to
abandon prior views and plans entirely in the wake of a successful
mediation.

Taking out a recalcitrant facet might seem like a potent mediation
technique, and it is...but not one without risk. A supporting or main
facet can take an extreme consequence just like a PC, including
rewriting one of its portfolio aspects to reflect the consequence.
Unlike a PC, taking this consequence doesn't keep the facet in the
fight. It's still taken out, but it's only detached until the end of the
scene. The aspect change involved in taking an extreme consequence
separates the facet from its parent spirit. These separated facets
become erratic and unpredictable. Each such renegade must be met with
mediation on its own terms, or it will cause no end of trouble.

#### Manifestation Stunts

Just as people can't normally access the otherworld, spirits and their
facets can't normally access the material world. Some facets can only
take advantage of moments of immanence to affect the material world, and
must wait for these moments---or encourage other, more capable
spirit-facets to create them. Other facets are able to use a
_manifestation stunt_ to work around their normal limits and affect the
real world and people in it. Think of manifestation stunts like ritual
stunts in reverse: given some circumstance, a spirit-facet can affect
something in the material world. Here are some examples.

- **Dream Invasion:** The facet can intrude on the dreams of anyone
  who's been in the vicinity of things that represent all its
  portfolio aspects during the past day. While there, it can interact
  socially with the target, creating advantages or even engaging in
  social conflict. The target is not automatically aware of the
  invasion, though they might be able to discover it through an
  overcome action with [[Notice]] or [[Empathy]], or even through a careless
  comment by the invader. If the subject becomes aware, they can end
  the invasion by winning a contest of [[Will]] opposed by [[Will]].
- **Poltergeist:** The facet can interact with material objects using
  [[Physique]] during a scene where each of the facet's portfolio aspects
  is embodied by an aspect on anything in the scene. It can attack or
  create advantages, but cannot be attacked. This costs one [[fate point]]
  per exchange, and the manifestation ends if any of the requisite
  aspects are removed.
- **Chain of Coincidence:** The facet can affect the material world by
  causing twists of fate or chance. If its portfolio aspects are well
  represented, the coincidences are generally positive or helpful. If
  representations of its portfolio aspects are missing or have been
  turned against its aspects, the coincidences are negative or
  harmful. Over the course of a few hours, these coincidences can
  build up to a significant effect, allowing the facet to create an
  advantage or effect change by overcoming an obstacle. Roll [[Rapport]]
  for positive changes and [[Provoke]] for negative. Actively opposing
  Chain of Coincidence requires several hours of work to combat a
  seemingly endless tide of happenstance.

> A domestic spirit-facet is upset that the burrows and nests of local
> wildlife have been disturbed for a commercial development. The spirit
> goes to work, and the building's plumbing just happens to spring leaks
> near areas opportune for mold colonization, the spores just happen to
> get picked up by the HVAC, and soon the building gains the [Sick
> Building] aspect, sending a handful of workers home, having
> come down with respiratory diseases. Now the facet turns its attention
> to the perplexed maintenance workers. Hopefully the mediums they've
> called in are able to help them sort things out...

Facets can also have normal stunts, with the added provision that they
can do things that are fantastical or impossible in the otherworld. Each
stunt should still convey something specific and align with one of the
facet's portfolio aspects. A facet could have stunts allowing it to fly,
shape rock, fling blasts of fire, twist emotions, or perform any number
of other tricks. These stunts only function while wholly in the
otherworld; they are not available during immanent incidents in the
mundane world.

#### Traveling Facets

As they're able to move about the otherworld, a spirit's facets will
sometimes travel outside of its territory. The spirit might be seeking
to add unclaimed territory to its domain, or the facets might simply be
visiting another spirit---they act enough like people that conversation
and even friendship are possible. These traveling facets can be
exceptionally problematic for mediums, as they can cause extremely
irregular trouble. They retain all of their manifestation stunts, and
use them to support their portfolio as usual, but do so in places their
parent spirit isn't normally connected to. Worse, a facet visiting a
friend might exercise its manifestation stunts in outrage over a
transgression of that friend's portfolio, a confusing situation for any
mediums trying to determine why a spirit is upset.

Powerful spirit-facets can even travel between planets through the
otherworld. When questioned, they describe the process as taxing or
unpleasant, so most don't bother. Those that do might be following
someone interesting, seeking novelty, or following up on a story they
heard from a priest or worshipper. These facets bring extremely strange
and out-of-place portfolio aspects with them, provoking conflict with
native spirits and disrupting established arrangements between people
and the otherworld.

