---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
tags:
- '#4](../lifegard-research-station-4/index.html)'
---

Fate Codex

# All Fate Must Be Eaten

_by Rob Wieland_

## Hell Is Other People

Zombies are the great American monster. Like all great American
innovations, the zombie takes elements of what came before---the reborn
creatures of Haitian voodoo, the insatiable hunger of the ghoul, the
infectious bite of the vampire---and blends them together into an
entirely new creature. The zombie isn't scary because it could be
anybody. It's scary because it's everyone.

The monster plays on fears of conformity---creatures that look human
one-on-one, but soon turn into a sea of grasping hands and always
chewing mouths.

The true monsters of the zombie movie aren't the creatures banging on
the door. The zombies don't get inside on their own. Zombies turn our
hopes and fears against us by shining an ugly mirror on our prejudices
and our selfishness. Tension between human survivors leads to
backstabbing, doors unlatched, and rules temporarily forgotten. Raiders
strip every last gold tooth and luxury item that they can get their
hands on. The powerful try to rebuild the world in their own images.
When it all looks hopeless at the end of a zombie story, it's usually
because, somewhere in the middle of the story, the people involved put
their self-interest first.

[[Fate Core]]'s focus on characters make it an excellent fit for these types
of zombie stories. The rules presented here target the important drama
between the survivors, with the zombies as a looming threat. We include
tailored aspects, as well as advice on how to keep the tension high
between survivors during play.

### Night of the Living Aspects

'Zombie story' is a pretty wide genre definition. Is this story a
dramatic tale about survivors striving to live another day by battling
external threats and internal friction? Is it a comedic tale about the
survivors doing all the things they wished they could have done but
didn't before the rise of the walking dead? Is it an action tale
involving blasting through an infinite number of undead to return the
world to some semblance of normalcy? Maybe it's a little of all those.
When you first sit down at the table, talk about what kind of zombie
story you want to tell. Discussing favorite zombie story elements with
other group members will help focus what's important in this tale and
narrow ideas for character concepts.

Characters still begin with five aspects, but the focus is modified to
get ones that are a better fit for the genre. High Concept and Trouble
stay close to their counterparts in [[Fate Core]], but the other three
aspects reflect the attitudes toward the zombies, the positive bonds
that give the group strength, and the cracks in the armor that may one
day let the zombies in to feast. There are several example aspects
included for inspiration and for those groups who want to dive straight
into the deep end of the world.

For groups that want to start on the first day of the end of the world,
begin play with a high concept and trouble and fill in the others as you
play through your first session. Each scene ends with at least one of
the remaining three aspects filled in. Steer scenes towards ones that
fill out everyone's open aspects. This works well for the classic zombie
scenario of strangers thrust together trying to survive, as a convention
game, or as a one-shot trying to show people how Fate works.

The high concept aspect says something about the game as well as the
character. Games set during the fall of humanity will have high concepts
that reflect on what the character was before the rise of the dead.
Games set farther after the fall feature high concepts that reflect the
character's role in the survival group. Compel pre-fall aspects to
remind characters of what they lost, or maybe what they were hoping to
forget. Compel post-fall aspects to generate unforeseen consequences or
remind the group of past failures.

> Examples: `Reluctant Leader], `Grieving Mother],
> `Hopeful Seeker], `Secretive Official], `Reckless
> Anarchist]

Trouble follows characters even after the end of the world. Good
thematic troubles can put the individual characters in danger from the
undead with a compel. Great ones can endanger all the survivors at the
table. Drunks fall asleep, curious characters push out farther into the
unexplored regions around camp, and arrogant survivors try to lead the
others only to cause friction instead. Selecting a trouble that
endangers everyone rather than just a single character means more
opportunities for compels and character drama.

> Examples: `Thinks She's in Charge], `[[Will]] Do Anything to Find
> Him], `Absent-Minded], `Wants to Learn How They
> Work], `Am I Infected?]

The phase trio from [[Fate Core]] exists to provide a group with compelling
reasons to have stuck together. Zombie games featuring survivors of the
zombie apocalypse use it to generate good backstories and highlight the
tensions between the survivors. The phase trio defines the web of
relationships in the survivor group, as well as how the character became
a survivor instead of a zombie when things went to hell. The three
phases generate three aspects important to your character: the
**Survivor Aspect**, the **Link Aspect**, and the **Friction Aspect**.

Take a turn around the table generating each of these aspects for each
of the characters. When generating link and friction aspects, make sure
everyone has at least one link and friction pointing at them directly.
The more tangled the web, the more drama gets made by pulling on the
strands.

The survivor aspect sums up the character's first memorable encounter
with the walking dead. The zombie might have been someone the character
didn't know. It could have been someone the character knew quite well,
like a family member or a loved one. The aspect also suggests how the
character survived the encounter. It may have ended in violence. It
might have tested the resourcefulness of the survivor. It might have
been what killed the last group the person joined. Good examples of this
aspect suggest both the nature of the encountered zombie and how the
character survived.

> Examples: `Killed My Zombified Mother], `Outran My Undead Boy
> Scout Troup], `Ran Over a Zombie at 2 AM], `Only
> Survivor of Project Phoenix], `Battled My Way Out of St.
> Francis Hospital]

The link aspect chooses the character's link to the survivor group. Yes,
there's safety in numbers, but there's always going to be one person
that makes life better. That person might be a potential love interest.
This person may remind the character of someone they knew before the
rise. The person may have saved the character's life. Even if someone
had completely balanced views on the rest of the group, there's one
person that stands out just a little bit. Good examples of the link
aspect define the relationship between the characters and how that
relationship can be tested.

> Examples: `Nelson Kept Me Alive], `Kelly Knows How I Feel
> (Right?)], `Beverly Is My New Mom], `I Owe Frank
> Everything], `Valerie Rescued Me]

The friction aspect indicates the character's choice for the first one
to be zombie meat. The aspect should illustrate why the other survivor
is so frustrating. In any social situation, someone's going to be on the
bottom of the totem pole. Compels can quickly lead to tension between
these two characters but don't forget to use these aspects to invoke. If
two characters who don't like each other are looking for supplies,
there's healthy competition to be the one who brings home actual bacon.
Good examples of the friction aspect highlight the tension and also
point out ways that tension is useful to the story.

> Examples: `Suzanne's Just a Kid], `Dalton Is
> Dangerous], `Laurie Keeps Too Many Secrets], `It's
> Either Jim or Me], `Alex Almost Got Me Killed]### What About the Weapons?

One of the first elements that get discussed in zombie games is weapons.
Some of this discussion will come out as characters are made. The
fragility of weapons can be represented by creating advantages. While an
advantage has a free invoke, it's safe. Once the invoke is gone, that
beloved cricket bat or shotgun is in danger. All it takes is a compel to
tell the player that the axe is broken or the chainsaw is out of gas. If
the character wants a trusty weapon that can never be destroyed, make it
a stunt or a character aspect, like `My Father's Hunting
Rifle]. That hunting rifle has backstory, making the character
trust it reliably, but take dangerous risks to make sure it doesn't get
pulled off by a pack of zombies. Even as a stunt, a trusty weapon can
still inspire stories without the need for compel. What happens when
someone discovers someone else using a `Battle-Hardened Katana]
to slice off zombie heads?### Forty Miles of Bad Road

Fate has a reputation for being unable to do horror games because of the
control the players have over their characters. It also has a reputation
for not being gritty enough to convey the danger of a zombie setting.
With all those stress boxes and consequences, a character will never
truly feel in danger. Characters can soak up all that stress and
consequence and be just fine without a care in the world. This hack aims
to add some grime, sweat, and blood to [[Fate Core]].

Ninety percent of dread is in the mind's eye. Stress hits are still
hits. Describe the wind getting knocked out of a character's lungs or
the gnashing teeth two inches from delicate fingers. Use mental hits to
remind the character of other times they were put down or upset by the
person doing the arguing. Treating stress hits like close calls goes a
long way to turning them into another precious resource like bottled
water or pain pills. Most characters only have two stress boxes, so keep
the pressure on whenever they cross one out.

Survivors push themselves to stay alive. In this hack, stress hits only
recover after a conflict when the survivors have found a safe haven from
zombies. Adjusting when characters recover stress keeps the pressure on
players to actively seek safety. It also makes offering stress as part
of a success with a cost a tougher choice. If a character stays up on
watch, they don't get to recover stress. Who takes that hit? The ex-cop
who already has a lost box or two but has skills that fit the profile of
a guard better? Or the unstressed waitress who can keep watch but might
be a liability if things turn violent?

Fate focuses on character, and characters are what drive zombie stories.
The zombies are a fire simmering in the background. When the survivors
get into conflicts, make them count. Arguing whether to kill someone
who's been bit can quickly turn into a mental conflict, since the life
of a man, or maybe a boy, lies in the balance. Ask the players if they
want to turn an argument into a conflict. Compelling a friction aspect
between two survivors that hate each other turns a discussion into a
contest as two rivals try to get the survivors to take a side on their
argument. That compel sets off other ones, as other friction aspects are
compelled to air the characters' grievances and link aspects compel
people into the argument. Soon, a flare-up between two rivals brings the
whole group into an argument. Perfect timing for a zombie attack.

### Save The Last One for Yourself

Hit compels hard. Especially when compels are used to get characters to
act against each other. Don't be afraid to take suggestions from the
players and put those [[fate point]]s out there. When players push each
other, they get their points once those actions have consequences.
Insulting someone with the friction aspect is one thing. Insulting them
to the point where they forgot to make sure the gate was locked? That's
compel worthy.

Consequences from conflicts do a great job reflecting the gritty nature
of a zombie setting. Medical aid is scarce, so something that might be a
mild consequence elsewhere can always be `Worse Than It First
Looked]. This setting is also rife with mental consequences as
survivors crack under pressure. Consequences offer more compels to allow
zombies to put on the pressure. Consequences are a great way to pay for
success with a cost from avoiding zombies. A consequence like `I]`Think]` I Got Bit] will fuel some great
scenes if the character makes it back to the safety of the hideout.

It's a hard world. Character death is common in zombie fiction and this
hack is no different. As GM, declare as hard an outcome as possible.
Being Taken Out of a conflict could mean a character dies in this genre.
A physical conflict likely ends in death. Even a mental conflict might
end in a fatal mistake that allows the dead to get in. If players
negotiate concessions, you should get some continuing drama out of it.
Getting medical attention might become the crux of the next storyline. A
character might survive a zombie attack through conceding, but someone
else gets bit. Or win the argument, but lose the group's trust. The
other survivors may wonder if the character is worth putting up with all
the arguments and mental conflict. Storming off in a huff isn't the best
idea with zombies right outside the door. A returning character may be
pestered with questions about being infected. Or blamed if something
goes wrong at the camp in the interim.

### No More Room in Hell

The zombies in this hack are an environmental threat. Aspects represent
the risen dead; these aspects describe the rules of the zombie
infestation. As GM, create five aspects that describe the zombies while
the players are making their characters. These illustrate the strength
of the zombies, as well as their weaknesses. Five allows for a good
sense of discovery. You have final say over the aspects; though, in the
spirit of collaborative world building, you may take suggestions from
the table.

Once the survivors know the rules, they can make plans and preparations
to keep themselves safe from infection. They may invoke zombie aspects
for bonuses when using the aspects to their advantage. You can compel
the aspects when the zombies have an advantage over the breathing
characters in the story. We've included some examples below from classic
zombie tropes, but don't be afraid to make your own. Borrow them from
other movies, or take assumptions about zombies and twist them to keep
your players on their toes.

**Infectious Bite:** Often, the infection is carried by the zombie's
bite. Invoke the aspect for a better examination of a character's health
after a run-in with the dead. Compel the aspect to infect an NPC.
Whether they turn or are put down by the other survivors can be the
source of great drama.

**Slow Walkers:** The classic zombie moves at a slow but relentless
speed. Invoke the aspect to make it easy for a character to outrun or
dodge out of the grasp of a zombie. Compel the aspect to catch the
character in a situation where he may be unable to maneuver away, like a
walk-in freezer.

**[[Shoot]] ****Them**** in the Head!:** Putting down a zombie often
requires a bullet to the brain. Invoke this aspect to take careful aim
to put a walker back down for good. Compel the aspect and the zombie
gets within grasping or biting distance while the player gets into
position.

**Growling Runners:** More recent zombie stories feature them as fast,
rage-filled beasts able to close the distance before an unlucky soul can
reload. Invoke this aspect to take advantage of feral intelligence to
lure or hunt them like animals. Compel this aspect to blitz an
unsuspecting survivor out of nowhere.

**They Just Keep Coming:** As more people die, the ranks of the zombies
swell. Invoke this aspect to gain a crystal clear focus in the face of
so many things that want to taste the flesh of the living. Compel the
aspect to have more zombies arrive just as soon as the last batch is
dispatched.

### A Neverending Hunger

Zombies are not made like characters. They have no stress. They take no
consequences. The zombies never roll dice. Racking up zombie kills is
meaningless. They are a force that doesn't negotiate or back down. Use
challenges and contests when confronting a zombie threat. Save the
conflicts for when human characters come to blows. The players might use
a challenge to clear the zombies out of an area to keep it safe. A
contest might involve players working together to restart a generator to
keep their electric fence up. Be explicit with the stakes. The clearer
you are with what happens if the players don't succeed, the more likely
they will be willing to invoke and succeed at a cost to make it happen.

Because zombies don't roll dice, they deal stress in one of two ways:
when a player chooses to succeed at a cost or when the GM invokes a
zombie aspect. When a character succeeds at a cost and takes stress from
a zombie, they take stress equal to the difference in [[shift]]s they need
to turn the roll into a success. When you invoke a zombie aspect, the
character may make an appropriate defend roll against a difficulty of +2
for each zombie aspect invoked.

> Nathan dropped into a pit of zombies locked up in a sub-basement. They
> have Strength in Numbers and an Infectious Bite. The GM spends two
> [[fate point]]s for a +4 attack on Nathan. He musters a +3 defense, taking
> a 1-stress hit. Even if the GM doesn't spend more [[fate point]]s to hit
> him with another attack next round, he's still got to find a way out
> of here.

Many zombie stories have an element of discovering the source of the
infection and how it works. The gradual reveal also increases the threat
of the zombies, since they get more opportunities to compel themselves
into situations. As GM, you may use any of the zombie aspects at any
time, but they are revealed when they are used. Once all the aspects are
discovered, the exploration continues. The zombies continue to evolve as
a threat. Maybe the dead are learning. Maybe the virus mutated. Maybe
the demons are angry the survivors keep winning. When the maximum number
of zombie aspects is in play, you may remove one of them whenever the
characters reach a significant milestone.

Fate makes the game about the people, and people are what make a zombie
tale memorable.

