---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Amber Twilight

By JIIMA ARUNSONE

> The question we have to ask is: what is the Empire? Why it is still
> considered an authority over the whole of Human Space? It was an
> important power in the past, but now it is nothing but a collection of
> stagnant worlds at the far end of the galaxy. They aren't even ruled
> by humans anymore; they allowed these freakish Faeries to take all
> power there. And yet, they still think they can dictate to other
> systems how we should live. Why? Because they have irium? Well, I
> think their monopoly is only one more reason to end Imperial control
> altogether.
>
> ---Prince Aegius

## THE VAST REACH OF SPACE

Human Space. More than twenty star systems, connected by vast network of
space-time **gates**, all colonized by one intelligent species alone:
_homo sapiens_. Through the last thousand years it has grown in peace,
knowing no conflict larger than fights between two groups of colonists
on a newly conformed world. But that galactic peace can be deceiving.
Between planets, systems, and organizations there is a great deal of
tension---old animosities and outright enmity---which only needs a small
spark to be set aflame.

### Mystech

Legends say the humanity was forced to search for new homes in space; a
terrible war wrecked their world, the Cradle, and they lost not only
their homes, but also their history, technology, and much more. The only
thing that saved them from destruction was the discovery of **irium**, a
mysterious amber-like substance which could manipulate the mystic energy
of the universe. This discovery led to the creation of mystic
technology--- in short, **mystech**---which not only replaced the lost
wonders of ancient ages, but also allowed for things previously thought
impossible: the creation of new species, teleportation, transmutation,
and more.

Inside every one of these wonders of technology lies a small matrix
formed from a small amount of pure irium; there is simply no known
replacement. Interestingly enough, most denizens of Human Space have no
idea how irium is produced. Certainly it is available only on the
Cradle---a long-abandoned homeworld of humanity---but the particulars of
its harvesting are secrets known only to a chosen few. The one who
controls the Cradle, therefore, controls Human Space.

### The Faeries

Some rare people in Human Space are...different. They are usually born
as mundane human girls, but during adolescence they start to change,
slowly growing insect-like wings and antennae. When their transformation
is complete, they gain the ability to manipulate mystic energy by power
of their will---an ability called _**faery magi![[adv_r.svg|30 ]] **_---which allows them
to control energy and emotions, create illusions, and even affect
mystech devices. They also gain the ability to switch between their new,
winged _**faery form**_ and a normal human appearance.

But along with their powers, they also gain an unnatural hunger for
emotions; to sate this hunger they must "feed" on human beings. This act
is extremely pleasurable for the victim, but also exhausting, sometimes
leading to their death. Because of their thirst, the Faeries are treated
with suspicion and fear in many parts of Human Space, despite the fact
that most of them control their hunger and pose no threat.

The Empire is a major exception to those prejudices. Long ago, powerful
Faeries formed alliances with many noble families of the nascent Empire.
Over time, they became an important part of Imperial society and even
seized the Imperial throne. The Imperial population of Faeries is the
largest in Human Space, and they control most important seats of power
there.

The Faeries are numerous across all systems, but they are not unique in
their ways and needs. Other creatures have alternate forms and hungers
and most of them present with both genders. Known collectively as the
Others, they share with Faeries the abilities to manipulate mystic
energy and to shapeshift.

### The Empire

Once, the Empire ruled the whole of Human Space. Now it is
second-smallest faction, controlling just two star systems...and yet, it
remains a major power. Their territory might be small, but the Empire's
holdings include the Cradle, the only source of irium, which means the
whole production of this priceless amber is in Imperial hands.

Irium is the key to Imperial power and prosperity, but sadly it has also
become its downfall. The income from the amber trade allows the Empire
to provide all basic commodities for free to Imperial citizens. But
years of buying goods from outside the system has devastated Imperial
manufacturing and innovation; it's always easier to buy pleasures from
far way than to build anything worthwhile themselves.

This collapse has left the Empire stagnant. Imperials aren't motivated
to change anything. More than half of the population is unemployed and
most of them don't want to work. Its society is calcified and decadent,
more interested in pleasures than in doing anything meaningful. The
ruling class is no exception: even the Empress seems to be more
concerned with expensive parties and beautiful lovers than with the
Empire's future.

### GUARDIANS

Despite a millennium of peace, all systems maintain military forces,
usually using them as internal law enforcement. Among them is the
Imperial Guard, seen outside of the Empire more as a curiosity or
decoration than as any real military force. Composed entirely of
Faeries, they look beautiful in their white uniform dresses; they're
nice and generally harmless. This reputation is a useful misconception
for the Guard, so the organization carefully maintains this image,
allowing some members participate in trivial crime-fighting shows or
even attain celebrity status.

In reality, the Imperial Guard is probably the last part of Empire that
maintains its original focus, protecting the Empire from threats within
and without. They are also crucial to maintaining the large population
of Imperial Faeries---it's the Guard who maintain a special, mandatory
school for newly awakened Faeries, called the Academy. There, young
Faeries not only learn a standard curriculum, but also are taught how to
control their powers and Hunger. After graduation, Faeries are required
to serve three years in the Guard, although they can choose to stay on
longer as career Guardians.

### Anvedia

The largest human organization in Human Space is the Sultanate, a loose
confederation of ten star systems connected by the nominal rule of the
Great Sultan and a cult of ten beings of immense power, called Angels.
Each Sultanate system has a large degree of independence, with their own
culture, political system, and international contacts.

Anvedia is the smallest of the Sultanate systems, containing only one
habitable planet. It is not especially developed and, until recently,
was relatively poor. This situation changed thanks to the current
Anvedian prince, Aegius. He ordered the creation of a new gate, creating
a fast and safe path between Sultanate systems and the Empire,
transforming Anvedia into a trading hub. He also secured trading deals
with the Empire by arranging a marriage between the young Empress Selene
and his son, Arius. All that doesn't change life on the Anvedia too
much, however---most of the business is in space near the gate, not on
the planet---but such boldness made Aegius's fortune and solidified his
local authority.

But the ambitious prince wants more. He's seen the Empire, and found it
unfit to carry forward humanity's legacy. He believes the time has come
for him to become the leader of Human Space. He only has to rip control
of the irium from the rotting, wasteful hands of the Empire to secure
the loyalty of every other system. Even if it means war.

## SETTING CREATION

Amber Twilight is a Quick Start adventure, containing everything you'll
need to jump into your first session. Before you start, discuss the
broader setting with your players, and ensure they all know the concepts
detailed in the previous section. You can give them these descriptions
yourself, or read a few sections aloud during setup.

Before starting a game, explain to your players the current
issue---[Desperately Seeking Fairie]---and ask them to provide
at least one more face associated with it. These additional characters
will provide plot hooks and twists that will tie your players to the
high-stakes game of galactic politics in which they are involved.

Then ask your players to choose one of these two _**impeding issues**_:
[Anvedian Wives] or [One Bad Apple]. Have them write
down one or two more faces for the impending issue, rounding out the
larger cast of characters with their suggestions.

### **Current Issue:** Desperately Seeking Fairie

Unlike the nearby Arius Gate, the planet of Anvedia seems to be boring
world, a planet where nothing interesting happens. Many whisper that the
only reason the Empire maintains the Anvedian embassy is to give new
recruits something to do. But one day, the Embassy is contacted by a
desperate local merchant looking for her missing wife, a Faerie, setting
into motion a mystery that may lead the Guardians down the path to
discovering the truth of what is happening in this seemingly peaceful
city. Faces

- **Iskander Kilstan**, desperate husband of the missing Fairie.
- **Tamlin** **Ishval**, governor of Anvedia City.

### Impeding Issues

Finding themselves in a new role is only the start. Something is fishy
on Anvedia, and it'll be obvious from the beginning. Other possible
leads are the [Anvedian Wives] **** and [One Bad
Apple].

### ANVEDIAN WIVES

Anvedian society is conservative even by Human Space and Sultanate
standards. Women are a rare sight in public, and most of them work at
home if they work at all. But the Guardians arrive on Anvedia to find a
lot of working women, many more than expected. Many of these women
occupy jobs that used to belong to their husbands, and they don't always
have the experience one might expect. When the embassy suffers a major
computer network outage due to incompetence of a new local technician,
the Guardians might have reason to start asking questions about the new
women on staff...

**Faces**

- **Jasmine Chatnavy**, current manager of the embassy cafeteria.
- **Lisa Yared**, technician in DEC* service, who obviously is not
  fit for her role.

_* Digital Enchantment Calculator_

### ONE BAD APPLE

There are people who shouldn't work here in the embassy. They used their
access to Imperial system of codes and passes to help a ring of
smugglers transport their contraband to the Cradle System. They worked
undetected for some time, but one of them was recalled to the Empire
during a recent staff exchange, and a second lost her access to crucial
systems. Now she'll have to find a new partner, and quick, because
smugglers demand results, and they're not known for their patience.

**Faces**

- **Ianka Hertzog**, corrupt embassy official, working for smugglers.
- **John Macfarlane**, antiquarian and smuggler's contact in the
  capital of Anvedia.

## CHARACTER CREATION

In Amber Twilight, there are two types of player characters:
_**Guardians**_ and _**Specialists**_. Guardians are powerful but
relatively inexperienced Fairie representatives of the Empress.
Specialists, as they are not Faeries, are lacking in terms of raw power,
but competent in their field of expertise. At least half of the PCs
should be Guardians.

Guardian characters are all fresh from the Academy. They've spent the
last six years learning etiquette, law, tactics, practical sciences, and
other subjects. Despite attending the same school, they come from
various social strata and differ in strengths and weaknesses. What
they're all lacking is practical knowledge: they have never used their
skills and powers in real-life situations, and they don't know the world
outside the controlled environment of the Academy.

Specialists are a different breed. They aren't Faeries: they can't
transform or use mystical energy, and some even aren't Imperial
citizens. But they have skills the Guardians don't have, and they're
good at their jobs. For one reason or another, every Specialist is loyal
to the Empire, and probably has some relationship to one or more
Guardian characters.

### Character Aspects

Your character will have the aspects described in [[Fate Core]] (page 55).
If your character is a Guardian, spin their high concept around their
Fairie nature and social standing, like [Failed Fairie
Princess] **** or [Thief Awakened Against All
Expectations]. Connect one of their aspects---be it their
trouble or one of their phase trio aspects---to some intense, core
emotion for them.

If your character is a Specialist, their previous adventures can justify
all kinds of aspects, so you're mostly free in your choices. That said,
you'll use one of their phase trio aspects to define their loyalty to
the Empire or to one of the Guardians.

### SKILLS

Amber Twilight uses the standard skill list from [[Fate Core]], but some
skills are modified or "flavored" to better adapt them to the
techno-fantasy setting: [[Crafts]] is replaced by Mystech and Glamour,
[[Burglary]] is replaced by Intrusion, and [[Lore]] is replaced by Education.

Guardians get a broad, flat list of skills: one Good (+3), four Fair
(+2), and six Average (+1) skills.

Specialists get the standard set of skills: one Great (+4), two Good
(+3), three Fair (+2), and four Average (+1) skills.

**Mystech:** Because mystech creations are complicated, this skill only
lets you fix, upgrade, tune, or assemble mystech devices from readymade
components.

- **Glamour:** Creation of constructs made from _glamour_, a sort of
  "illusion material" or visible force field. It can be used to
  display information and to create temporary items, even weapons, or
  mirages to fool enemies.
- **Intrusion:** Dexterity and lock picks are not enough in a world
  where a magical barrier can stun an unwary thief. Intrusion lets you
  detect and bypass mystech security systems of all sorts, from
  anti-theft purses to network firewalls, by rolling against their
  security measures.
- **New Stunt---Remote Control (Intrusion):** Skilled hackers can
    not only disable devices, but also use them for their own needs.
    When you use Intrusion to [[create advantage]] on a device, the
    aspect will show that you completely control it---for example,
    [Jacked In, In Control].

- **Education:** This skill encompasses general education and can
    be used when "school knowledge" would be useful, like knowing of
    a foreign culture or understanding some obscure law of physics
    employed in a spell.

## NEW EXTRA: MAGIC

Magic in Human Space is a practical application of mystic energy to
change reality around you. It is a science, not an art, and you'll need
specialized equipment to use it. For really large works, that equipment
might be giant reactors, assembly lines, and laboratory equipment, but
for technicians and dabblers, a specialized portable computer called a
**DE![[adv_r.svg|30 ]] ** is usually the only thing you'll need.

### The DEC

A **Digital Enchantment Calculator (DEC)** is a multipurpose portable
computer used for shaping magical effects. Most of these devices are
wrist-mounted bracelets that projects holographic interfaces. The more
powerful ones are larger, similar in size to and shaped like books or
computer consoles.

Every DEC has a _**performance rating**_ that defines the number of
spells it can store. It also has an _**energy stress track**_ with 2 to
4 boxes, equal to its performance rating. This stress track clears when
the device's battery is recharged. The most powerful devices have one
moderate consequence slot representing low-battery problem like [Slower
Performance] **** or [Distracting Battery Warning].

For Specialists and NPCs, getting access to a DEC and the necessary
training requires a stunt. If you buy this stunt, you'll get a Fair (+2)
DEC. You can get a better DEC by having an aspect that justifies it, or
by taking a second stunt to get a Good (+3) DEC or a third stunt to get
a Great (+4) DEC.

Guardians, of course, don't need such a device to manipulate mystical
energies.

### **Spellcasting**

Most mystech devices have fixed properties and do not require any
special actions or knowledge to use. Energy pistols shoot light beams;
game consoles show _glamour_ displays that allow users to play games.

DECs are more versatile tools, allowing the user to program in any
magical effect like one would code software in modern-day computers.
Each spell is a procedure that must be written in advance and then
activated. You can use a spell with any appropriate action, rolling with
the most appropriate skill, or Education if no skill applies. A DEC can
store spells equal in number to its performance rating.

- The **difficulty** of creating a spell is equal to the difficulty of
  doing what the spell will do. Creating a spell that does something
  mundane will most face Fair (+2) difficulty, but creating spells
  that transform elements, set up permanent barriers, or alter large
  areas will face much higher difficulties.

- The **time** needed to program a spell is at least a minute. By
  increasing the preparation time by one step on the time ladder (Fate
  Core, page 197), you may decrease the preparation difficulty by one
  step. This means Specialists usually prepare spells in advance,
  storing them in the memory of a DEC to activate in the future with
  an action.

- A spell's **duration** is usually instant or permanent, depending on
  its nature. If the effect is possible without magic, it is
  permanent. If the effect isn't possible without magic--- such as a
  _glamour_ effect or fire without fuel---it ends at the end of the
  next exchange. You can program an effect to last longer, increasing
  the difficulty by one step each time you double the duration. You
  can also _**keep**_ spells up beyond their normal duration, but for
  each scene you keep any spells up, you must mark one energy stress.

- **Energy** is drained if you succeed with a cost, keep up spells, or
  someone inflicts stress on you with an attack designed to disable a
  device. If the DEC is taken out, it might take some serious damage
  that requires serious repairs.

> Jenny, who's playing a Specialist named Darius, wants to change his
> clothing to blend into a crowd. This is either a Glamour or [[Deceive]]
> action, and the GM sets the difficulty to Good (+3) because he needs a
> disguise that won't raise suspicion from the locals. He has plenty of
> time to program, though, so he works for a few minutes, lowering the
> difficulty of preparing the spell by one step to Fair (+2). He
> finishes preparing the spell without issue and activates it. This
> creates the advantage of [One With a Crowd] **** on him with
> a free invoke. The disguise will exist as long as he wants, but every
> scene he keeps the disguise active will inflict one energy stress to
> the DEC.

### DEC Stunts

These stunts apply to magic use, so they all require the DEC stunt as a
prerequisite.

**Fast Casting:** You can program magical effects quicker than others
can. You need one fewer exchange to prepare a spell for one skill,
chosen when you take this stunt.

**Signature Spell:** You've learned one spell so deeply that it's become
part of you. You don't need to store this spell in your DEC, and you can
cast it without preparation.

## NEW EXTRA: FAERIES

These rules define the special abilities of Guardian characters.
Specialists don't use these rules, but receive higher-ranked skills and
broader aspects.

### Core Emotion

Every Fairie has one emotion to which she is the most tuned, defined by
one of her aspects. Your Fairie might play well with this emotion or try
to stifle and control its expression. Either way, Faeries are drawn to
any expression of this emotion in others, perhaps even to the point of
violence.

### Hunger

The Hunger is an unnatural craving that forces Faeries to consume
emotions. If it is allowed to grow unchecked, it can force a Fairie to
enter a frenzied state, in which she would even kill to get sustenance.

Hunger is represented by mental stress and consequences. You can gain it
by assuming _**Faery Form**_ or by using Fairie magic and Fairie stunts.

If you have suffered any Hunger consequences or are in _**Faery Form**_,
the presence of any emotion that resonates with your core emotion may
make you feel your Hunger; this would be a compel on _**Faery Form**_ or
a Hunger consequence.

You can control Hunger by overcoming against a difficulty equal to your
highest Hunger consequence, but failure means becoming _**ravenous**_.
If you're becomes taken out from Hunger stress, you become ravenous and
cannot roll to control it. This frenzy lasts until at least your highest
consequence is removed. Ravenous Faeries are treated as NPCs.

A ravenous Fairie attacks any nearby human for sustenance, transforming
into _**Faery Form**_. She feeds using physical contact, usually a kiss,
overflowing the victim with emotions. If you feed, you remove
consequences related to Hunger by inflicting an equal amount of mental
stress to the victim; for example, removing a mild consequence inflicts
two mental stress.

Fed-upon humans feel drained, depressed, or unable to feel certain
emotions. In extreme cases, the victim can even die from overload.

Hunger consequences can only be removed while in human form. In _**Faery
Form**_, these can be removed by feeding the same way as in frenzy but
in less traumatic conditions. Faeries can choose which condition (or
mental stress) she heals, and inflict one stress less. Faeries can feed
on any sentient being that can feel emotions---even other Faeries---and
no matter the partner, it is usually an intimate act.

### Faery Form

A Fairie's true nature manifests in _**Faery Form**_, which they can at
will. Faery Form is similar to human form, but is usually slimmer and
with unusual body and hair colors. A Fairie in this form has slightly
larger eyes, human in shape but insect-like in composition, along with
small antennae on their forehead and large wasp-like wings on their
back. Their clothes also change, transforming into flowing robes or
skin-tight suits depending on the Fairie's preferences.

To transform, you'll [[create advantage]] using [[Will]]. Succeeding
transforms you into _**Faery Form**_. Succeeding at a cost usually
inflicts Hunger stress. You can invoke your _**Faery Form**_ to augment
your Fairie magic, fly at normal walking speed, or dazzle anyone with
your beauty. However, _**Faery Form**_ can be compelled to provoke your
Hunger.

### Fairie Magic

Even in human form, Faeries can use magic without any mystech device,
though they can use DEC magic if they'd like. The rules for Fairie magic
are the same as for DEC magic, with these changes:

- Faeries use programming skills, but a sort of mystical instinct. can
  prepare Fairie magic in half the time needed to code a DECprogram.
- Faeries store prepared spells in can
  memorizespellsequalinnumbertoyourWillrank.
- Faeries take Hunger mental stress instead of energy drain.

### Fairie Stunts

These stunts only work in _**Faery Form**_. In addition to their normal
allotment of free stunts and refresh, a Fairie character gets one free
Fairie stunt.

**Fairie Sting:** Using [[Will]] to attack, you can shoot a blast of
greenish light from the palms of your hands. This attack has a Weapon
rating of 1, dealing +1 stress on a success.

**Etherealness:** Once per scene, you can become half-material and
effectively invisible. You can move through walls and even through
hostile environments such as space. You can be attacked by magic, energy
weapons, and Fairie powers, you get Hunger stress instead of physical
stress, and you can be forced to materialize instead of getting a mild
consequence.

#### GUARDIAN STUNT

**Morph:** Morph bracelets are Guardians' badges of honor. When wearing
a morph bracelet, your _**Faery Form**_ becomes humanlike and incapable
of flight, but protected by _glamour_ armor, reducing physical stress
you take from attacks by one [[shift]]. A morph bracelet can also inject
some concentrated irium into your bloodstream to stop a Hunger frenzy
immediately. This option is a risky proposition, though, as it gives you
a moderate physical consequence.

## DESPERATELY SEEKING A FAIRIE

### Opening Scene: Anvedia City

The Imperial Embassy is located in the capital of Anvedia: Anvedia City.
It is a small, isolated complex of buildings in the Imperial style,
including living quarters, offices, and a cafeteria. After arriving, the
characters are met by Tamlin Ishval, governor of the capital, who
welcomes the new Guardians---mostly ignoring the Specialists---and
assures them that everything they need will be provided.

The governor states that the Guardians' predecessors rarely left the
embassy and advises them to be similarly cautious because "people still
have not adjusted to the new chapter of cooperation between our peoples"
and they might have trouble with women in command. The governor also
assures the Guardians that they will meet Prince Arius at an
"appropriate time." However, he notes that Specialists are free to leave
the embassy as they wish.

When any of the PCs visit a city, however, they will be contacted by
Iskander Kilstan, who pleads for a Guardian's help. It seems his wife is
missing, and the authorities have turned down all of his requests to
investigate her disappearance. He believes the Guardians are his only
hope because the missing woman is a Fairie.

### Middle Scene: Anything for Love

Kilstan is not stupid, so he'll never approach Specialists too close to
the embassy and reject any invitations to visit it. He will propose a
meeting in an abandoned shrine instead, a place avoided by most
Anvedians because it is supposedly cursed. If Guardians refuse to meet
him, he'll try to contact Specialists again and again. He has nothing to
lose, so he can be persistent.

When they meet, Kilstan will tell the Guardians the whole story. His
wife, Ailin, disappeared shortly before the Guardians' arrival on
Anvedia. She worked as a singer in a club, and according to the club
owner she left after work as usual, but she never came home. The police
started a search, but the case was canceled after one day; they refused
to reopen it and even suggested that he "find a normal human girl as a
wife." He started to look for her on his own, and after contacting some
other Fairie families he learned that his wife was not the only one
missing, and at least three other cases were being treated by the
authorities in the same way!

As they continue to talk, it becomes clear that Kilstan is under
observation. The spies following him aren't extremely competent, so they
can be at least detected---if not caught---if the PCs set guards. The
spies will try to escape first, fighting only if there are no other
options. They won't reveal anything, and if they're arrested, there will
be an official request to release them from the governor's office---and
possible diplomatic action; Guardians aren't authorities, and they can't
arrest anyone.## ANVEDIAN AGENT

### Aspects

[Anvedian Spy] • [Loyal]

### Skills

Good (+3) Shadowing, avoiding combat

Fair (+2) Fighting

Poor (-1) Resisting magic### Final Scene: Trap!

No matter how the Guardians solve the spies problem, the spies' masters
know about Kilstan now and move to control the damage the Guardians
might do, knowing that the Imperials will start to look for the missing
Faeries on their own.

Mr. Kilstan doesn't know much, and the other families are even more
intimidated than he is; they still believe there is a chance the
kidnapped women will return if they behave. The Guardians must be really
convincing (or make liberal use of mind-manipulation magic) to get any
clues from them.

They can mostly confirm Kilstan's version, but also at least two of
missing Faeries' families know they were contacted by some mysterious
person, and they were asked to meet with someone in the area of the
cursed shrine. They can also tell the Guardians about why that place was
abandoned: some people went mad there during a ceremony, including one
Fairie who started attacking other attendants.

As the Guardians are investigating, they are contacted again, this time
via video call. The caller will identify herself as the missing Fairie,
Ailin! She tells them a completely different story, saying that Faeries
on Anvedia are not full citizens, and because of that, she and her few
fellow Faeries were forced to marry some wealthy merchants as trophy
wives. They managed to escape and they don't plan on allowing their
ex-husbands to catch them again.

Of course, it is left to the players to determine whom they believe. If
they doubt Ailin's story, she will agree to confront Iskander Kilstan,
but only if the Guardians will guarantee her safety. She will propose
the haunted shrine as a place of meeting.

Unfortunately, the whole thing is a trap set by an Anvedian agent, San
Ingmar. He is using the mind-controlled Ailin as a puppet to lure the
Guardians and Kilstan to the shrine. Once they arrive, he activates the
shrine's curse, a powerful psychic attack affecting only Faeries and
inciting their Hunger. (For more, see the Drain stunt on page XX.) He
hopes that the ravenous Guardians will drain Kilstan; then he'll be able
to arrest them for murder and expel them from Anvedia.

Of course, the Guardians aren't defenseless. They'll know about the
curse from the Anvedian families or embassy personnel, they can check
around the shrine because they've had run-ins with spies before, and if
nothing else works, they can always use their morph bracelets to prevent
their Hunger frenzies---that is, if they have morphs at all.

Make the showdown with Ingmar challenging: he is not alone, and his
guards know how to fight. If his life becomes at stake, he'll concede to
the Guardians, knowing his family will demand his freedom later.

### **SAN INGMAR**

San doesn't have to work in such underhanded dealings; his family could
provide him anything material he'd want. But he wants excitement, and he
wants to do something meaningful, and these things cannot be bought. So
he became one of the prince's many agents. This position puts him at
odds with his family, but they will try to protect him if he finds
himself in trouble.

San is a thrill-seeker, which can be his weak point. Of course, he is a
professional, and the mission comes first for him, but if he has a
chance to do something showy to demonstrate his superiority, he'll do
it. He travels with a group of Anvedian goons (page XX).## SAN INGMAR

### ASPECTS

[Thrill-Seeker] • [Spymaster] • [Show-Off]

### SKILLS

Great (+4): [[Athletics]], [[Stealth]]

Good (+3): [[Contacts]], Education, [[Fight]]

Fair (+2): [[Provoke]], [[Notice]], [[Will]]

Average (+1): [[Investigate]], [[Physique]], [[Resources]], [[Shoot]]

### STUNTS

Signature Spell ("Drain"): San can use his knowledge of Anvedian
religion to activate wards in a shrine. This is magical attack using
Education against all Faeries in a zone, inflicting Hunger stress.

DEC Magic: Ingmar uses customized Good (+3) DEC with a special display
visible only to the user, so he doesn't risk betraying his position when
he uses it.

Become a Shadow: +1 to [[Stealth]] when he stays in the shadows.## Plot Hooks and Adventure Seeds

Surviving an ambush and avoiding a diplomatic crisis is only the
beginning of the Imperials' problems. Ailin might be found, but the
kidnappers have wiped her memory; she can't help in the search for the
remaining Faeries. And there are impeding issues at work, too, all
connected to some terrible conspiracy on the planet. Here are a few plot
hooks and adventure seeds to keep the story going.

### MISSING FAERIES

What happened to the rest of missing Faeries? Where are they? Are they
still alive after the ambush, especially if Ingmar and his goons were
defeated? Why were they kidnapped in the first place? Following this
trail might lead the PCs to troubling discoveries: most of the victims
were Imperial citizens connected in one way or another with the Cradle
and irium harvesting. There is a high risk that their investigation will
run into not only more Anvedian agents, but also the Imperial
bureaucracy. But why? Is the conspiracy rooted in the Empire as well?

### Meet the Ingmar Family

If the PCs imprisoned San Ingmar, that will quickly turn into more
trouble than it is worth. The spy has powerful kin, and his family will
do everything to free him from hands of the "inhuman Imperial bastards."
San knows that too, so he won't cooperate with the Imperials. On the
other hand, he might be willing to exchange information if the Guardians
are willing to help him with his family's long-term interests in
undermining the establishment's hold on the gate. Are the Imperials
willing to get mixed up in Sultanate politics to get to the truth?

### SHADOWS OF THE FORGOTTEN PAST

The powers that be on Anvedia play a dangerous game, and they have a few
aces in the hole to secure their success. If the PCs start to know too
much, they might discover one such ace the painful way. Aegius's agents
have access to strange guns that throw irium-coated darts, which disrupt
energy shields and are poisonous to Faeries. These weapons don't use a
mystech matrix, but some unknown technology, drawing up on materials
that fell into disuse ages ago. Is it possible that the Anvedians found
some cache of Last War technology? And why it is so terribly efficient
against Faeries?

## **SAMPLE CHARACTERS**

### **Wilhelmina "[[Will]]" von Lovenstein**

Unlike her praised older sisters, Wilhelmina is a sort of black sheep in
the family. She is known to hang out with troublesome students, avoiding
family politics and at least one social scandal. The truth is, though
she's as competent a diplomat as every other Lovenstein, she simply
wants to control her own fate, and not become another Lovenstein
princess.

Maybe serving on a remote post, far from Imperial courtly games, will be
the first step on her way to independence?## WILHELMINA "WILL" VON LOVENSTEIN

### ASPECTS

High Concept: [Independent Fairie Princess]

Trouble: [That Other Lovenstein Daughter]

Other Aspects: [Friends in Low Places] • [Love Conquers
All] • open slot

### SKILLS

Good (+3) [[Rapport]]

Fair (+2) [[Athletics]], Education, [[Empathy]], [[Deceive]]

Average (+1) [[Contacts]] (Anvedia), [[Notice]], [[Provoke]], [[Resources]], [[Shoot]], [[Will]]

### STUNTS

Still a Princess: If she's willing to make a concession to her family in
exchange for help, Wilhelmina gains +2 to a [[Contacts]] or [[Resources]] roll.

Morph (page XX)

Signature Spell ("Erised"): If you know someone's desire---for example,
by knowing a pertinent aspect of theirs---you can try to temporarily
reverse it. Doing so is creating an advantage with [[Deceive]], against a
difficulty equal to the target's [[Will]].### **Seraphina Fiery**

A daughter of a no-income family from the poorest part of Luna,
Seraphina usually describes herself as the lucky one. She awakened as a
Fairie, she befriended some cool people in the Academy, and despite her
numerous blunders she got an embassy assignment instead of the boot camp
that the most lowborn Academy students go to. She's slightly
overenthusiastic Fairie with a tendency to end in troubles, especially
when her rough honesty is not the best answer.## SERAPHINA FIERY

### ASPECTS

High Concept: [Troublemaker with a Four-Leaf Clover]

Trouble: [Curiosity Kills the Cat]

Other Aspects: [The Eye of the Hurricane] • [Sometimes Violence
Is the Answer] • open slot

### SKILLS

Good (+3) [[Athletics]]

Fair (+2) [[Fight]], [[Notice]], [[Provoke]], [[Will]]

Average (+1) Education, [[Empathy]], Intrusion, [[Physique]], [[Rapport]], [[Stealth]]

### STUNTS

The Bottom Is Always the Same: When among the lowest levels of society,
Seraphina gets a +2 bonus to her [[Rapport]].

Morph (page XX)

Signature Spell ("Shield"): Seraphina can use [[Fight]] to parry any
physical attack using a glamour shield. Casting the spell is a [[Fight]]
roll against Average (+1) difficulty to create the advantage Shielded.
The spell lasts until the end of the next exchange, two if succeed with
style.

### Artemis Chershire

Grumpy and usually unfriendly, Artemis is still one of the best mystech
instructors in the Academy. Only a few of students consider him a
friend, but those who deserve his friendship know that under Chershire's
grumpiness there's loads of sincere loyalty. Artemis is a modified
organism, one of the cat-people. Because of that, he is not especially
fond of leaving the Academy and visiting places where ones like him are
still considered things, but if a friend asks, he really won't have a
choice.## ARTEMIS CHERSHIRE

### ASPECTS

High Concept: [Cat-Hybrid Security Expert]

Trouble: [Looks Like a Freak, Feels Like a Freak ]

Other: [Lands on Four Paws] • [When a Friend Asks...]
• open slot

### SKILLS

Great (+4) Intrusion

Good (+3) [[Athletics]], [[Investigate]]

Fair (+2) [[Fight]], [[Notice]], [[Stealth]]

Average (+1) [[Deceive]], [[Crafts]], [[Physique]], [[Resources]]

### STUNTS

Cat Instincts: Artemis gains a +1 bonus to [[Notice]] when spotting enemies
or defending against surprise.

Hacker: Artemis is skilled at bypassing the security of computer
systems. He gains a +2 bonus to Intrusion when hacking software to get
access.

Remote Control (page XX) Fair (+2) DEC □□ (page XX)
