---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Arcane High

_by Mark Diaz Truman_

> Right at this moment, the Blue Dragons are in their locker room,
> talking about how they're going to spend their Globi Cup winnings.
> They're not even thinking about us, not even worried that we might win
> this thing. They think they've got us figured out.
>
> That's our advantage. That's how we win. We surprise them. We play
> twice as hard for three times as long. And we win this thing.
>
> We're a team. And together we're going to take that trophy home. Are
> you with me?
>
> --- Gabriella Lyons, Team Captain of the Razorskin Warthogs

It may not look like much, but Arcane High holds tremendous secrets.
Each day, the young students who attend this magnet school in the
Chicago suburbs enter a mysterious world of magic and supernatural
power, studying wizardry and witchcraft and learning to channel their
abilities into time-tested magical rituals. Nearly a thousand students
each year wrestle with advanced magic under the careful supervision of
archmages who have trained their whole lives to master a particular
subject ranging from illusions to hexes.

### Globi: The Game of Spheres

Yet the real draw for most students to attend Arcane High isn't really
magical training---it's the sports! Students still play traditional
sports like baseball and soccer for fun, but the coolest thing about
going to a magic high school is playing **globi**, a version of capture
the flag played in enormous **globi** **arenas** filled with magical
obstacles and dangerous creatures. In globi, teams of four players have
to make use not only of their physical abilities, but also their magical
training in summoning, divination, elemental magic, and illusions.

The goal of globi is to capture one or more of the rival team's
globi---metal spheres about a foot in diameter that each team hides
before the start of the match---but the spheres fight back once someone
picks them up! Some globi grow incredibly heavy while others sprout
vines and roots to try to entangle players while they escape. Getting to
the globi is only half the battle---getting it back to your team's goal
is also a tremendous task.

#### Globi Avatars

Magical traps, difficult globi, and rival players aren't the only
dangers teams face in the globi arena. Each team also has a special
defender called an avatar, a fierce magical construct or creature that
protects the thin strip of the course---the defensive zone---where the
players hide their team's globi. Avatars stick with a team year after
year, even as players graduate, and most teams derive their name and
logo from whatever creature or construct their team employs. Avatars are
difficult obstacles, and most teams go to great lengths to avoid having
to face one directly.

### The Global Academy Tournament

There are only a few magic schools in each country, but globi is a truly
international sport watched by wizards everywhere. Each year, the globi
season culminates in a Global Academy Tournament that pits the best high
school globi teams against each other in a single-elimination event
featuring dangerous arenas and unique surprises. It's considered an
honor for the International Globi Committee to ask an archmage to help
design the arena for the Globi Cup, and any players who make it all the
way to the tournament take their places in globi history!

#### Globi Around the World

What is globi like in other countries? Or in a professional league?
That's up to you! The characters in Arcane High are the best players at
their high school, but that doesn't mean that a bigger world of globi
stardom is easy to attain. Of course, the vast majority of kids who play
globi at the high school level will never take their skills to the
professional leagues. But all of them harbor that dream, as professional
globi players are praised, lauded, and adored throughout the magical
community.### Quick Start Adventures

Arcane High is a Quick Start Adventure that contains a unique setting,
pregenerated characters, plot hooks, and an opening scene. It's not a
full adventure, but it will get your group started on a brand new Fate
campaign!## Setting Creation

As a Quick Start Adventure, _**Arcane High**_ has everything you need to
jump right into your first session. Before you start, discuss the
broader setting with your group, perhaps even reading aloud the
descriptions of Arcane High and Globi so everyone is on the same page.

At the start of play, explain the **current issue** to your players and
ask them to fill in one or two additional faces associated with `Two
Games Down], listed below. These additional characters provide
new plot hooks and twists that tie your players more deeply to the drama
and strangeness of life at a magic academy.

Then ask your players to choose from one of the two available
**impending issues**: `Summoning Midterms] or `Talia in
Trouble]. Have the players fill in one or two additional faces
for their chosen impending issue as well, rounding out the larger cast
of characters with their suggestions.

### Current Issue: `Two Games Down]

Arcane High hasn't won a Global Academy Tournament. Ever. Year after
year, Arcane's globi coaches have seen their team come up short, falling
to richer and more competent rivals. The team that most often thwarts
Arcane High's hopes and dreams is the Iron Owls, an East Coast globi
team with a history of going all the way to the Globi Cup. Some years
are worse than others, and the worst years are when the Iron Owls knock
Arcane's team out in the National Round.

This year, Arcane High's new coach, Adrianne Radford, hopes to break the
losing streak. Arcane's team is only down two games from the Iron Owls,
running a close second behind their bitter rivals and hoping to make a
play for the Globi Cup. They've got a strong coach, a new avatar, and a
bunch of young, excited globi players. There are only five games left in
the season before the Global Academy Tournament starts, and the team can
taste victory. Their next game is against the Iron Owls, and a win there
will put them in striking distance of a National Championship!

**Faces:**

- Dr. Vikram Singh, Iron Owls coach and Professor of Elemental Magic.

- Octavia Reyes, senior and star striker for the Iron Owls.

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v1issue3/graphic-01.png)

### Impending Issues

In addition to being `Two Games Down] to their greatest rivals,
there are a number of other impending issues that might occupy the PCs,
including:

#### Summoning Midterms

Arcane High runs on a complicated system of classes that start and stop
at different times. The advantage of this system is that the teachers
and administrators work hard to make sure that students aren't
overwhelmed by too many tests or projects at once. The downside is that
there is pretty much always a test. The worst one on the horizon is the
Summoning midterm---each student will be expected to call an elemental
from a distant plane and control it for at least ten minutes! Students
are preparing round the clock for the upcoming exam, even summoning
smaller elementals that might just get out of control at the wrong
moment....

**Faces:**

- Dr. Jamal Freeman, head of the Summoning School at Arcane High

- Reese Kwan, teaching assistant (and frequent tutor) for Advanced
  Summoning

#### Talia in Trouble

Most globi players get a ton of opportunities to practice what they
learn in class in the arena. Yet Talia, one of the backup defenders for
Arcane High, has always struggled in Divination---mostly because she's
not fast enough at fortunetelling to use it on the field. Last week, she
was suspended for cheating on her Divination midterm, using unauthorized
magic to get the answers to the test. Other players can step up to fill
the gap, but people are whispering that Talia is having trouble at home
too, and that she might not be returning to Arcane High when her
suspension is completed.

**Faces:**

- Talia Kieval, recently suspended standout defender for Arcane High

- Mariella Rastle, Arcane High Divination instructor who turned Talia
  in for cheating!`](https://Images/graphic-02.html)### Pregenerated Characters

If your players wish to play pregenerated Arcane High athletes, you can
use the four sample characters provided on Auggie RadfordÂ in this
adventure. Stats are provided for Fate Accelerated versions of each
character, including their individual aspects, approaches, and stunts.## Character Creation

_**Arcane High**_ is written for Fate Accelerated. You can choose to use
[[Fate Core]]---and you might want to develop a more complicated magic
system if you do---but the real fun of _**Arcane High**_ rests in the
unique **arena mechanics** and the lightweight zest of Fate Accelerated
approaches.

In _**Arcane High**_, players take on the roles of jock high school
students in a magical and exciting world. Everyone at Arcane High does
magic all the time, but the characters are thrust into a particularly
dangerous and interesting situation: the globi arena. _**Arcane High**_
jumps between fast and furious globi matches and the complex world of
high school politics.

Before they create their characters, players must first create their
team's avatar. Remember that selecting an avatar both determines the
team's defenses and the team's name. Most teams find an avatar from a
supernatural plane, like a griffin or a water elemental. Once players
have selected their avatar, each player should add a unique aspect to
the character, like `Sharp Claws] for a griffin or `Illusions
of the Deep] for a water elemental.

The Gamemaster (GM) will then assign a few skill modes to the avatar,
listing one skill mode at Great (+4), two skill modes at Fair (+2), and
one skill mode at Poor (-1). The griffin, for example, might be Great at
"attacking with beak and claw," Fair at "evading enemy attacks" and
"piercing illusions," and Poor at "resisting entrapping magic." These
strengths and weaknesses are known to the players on the team, but they
often try to keep them a closely guarded secret from their rivals.

After creating their avatar and naming their team, players each select a
**position aspect** and a **drama aspect** for their characters. The
position aspect is like a character's high concept, a short phrase that
describes the character's role on the team, such as `Snake in the
Grass] or `Memorized the Playbook]. A drama aspect, on
the other hand, is a short phrase that describes what kind of problems
the character faces off the field, like `Academic Probation] or
`Bad Reputation].

Finally, players should each select a **teammate aspect** with one or
more of the other characters on their team to describe their
relationships. One character might have `Taken the Fall ]in a
previous cheating scandal or might be `Hopelessly in Love] with
another member of their team. Characters should have at least one
teammate aspect to start, but they can add them later in play too.

After selecting aspects, players should select approaches as normal.
Players may also want to add a stunt or two, but like teammate aspects,
stunts can be added during play as well. As with other FAE characters,
they receive only three boxes for stress, both physical and mental.

### Approaches and Magic

_**Arcane High**_ uses the traditional list of approaches found in Fate
Accelerated (Fate Accelerated Edition, Page 10): Careful, Clever,
Flashy, Forceful, Quick, and Sneaky. Most of the time, players should
use the approaches as described in FAE, but each of those approaches can
also be used when casting magic. Here's what each approach means when
the players let loose with spells, hexes, and summoning rituals:### Magical Effects

Remember that many of the negative outcomes associated with a particular
approach can still show up on a success. For example, a wizard who
throws a fireball at a rival team may knock out a rival player but find
themselves trapped in a section of the arena that's suddenly On Fire!#### Careful

Careful magic is slow and methodical. It involves the wizard slowing
down and casting the spell with some consideration for tradition and
precision, common to Summoning or Incantations. It runs the risk of
moving too slowly or exposing the wizard to other dangers.

#### Clever

Clever magic is tricky and unexpected. It catches opponents off-guard
with surprising force or springs a trap that no one saw coming. It runs
the risk of overcomplicating the situation or tying the wizard up in
unnecessary strings.

#### Flashy

Flashy magic is distracting and ephemeral. Illusions are almost always
flashy, attempting to grab and hold the attention of a target. It runs
the risk of creating unexpected chaos or drawing unwanted attention to
the wizard.

#### Forceful

Forceful magic is powerful and direct. It relies on brute force and
straight lines, knocking down obstacles, tying them up, or pushing them
forward. It runs the risk of collateral damage or overextending the
wizard's capabilities.

#### Quick

Quick magic is light and fast. It knocks rival players off their feet
without harming them or snakes away a resource faster than the other
team can respond. It runs the risk of not being forceful enough or
getting entangled in existing spells and magic.

#### Sneaky

Sneaky magic is quiet and invisible. It evades detection, curling around
its targets before they have a chance to react, or invisibly pushing
against the opposition from afar. It runs the risk of falling short of
the goal or revealing itself at the wrong moment.

## New Extra: The Arena

To play globi, you use a new Fate extra: the globi arena. Matches are
played out like conflicts, with each player getting a turn to take a
single action that shapes the outcome of the game. The arena divides up
the field of play into discrete zones, each one filled with different
challenges or obstacles designed to impede the characters' progress. The
arena is large enough that the rival team is obscured at the start of
play, moving secretly through the arena toward the three globi that lie
on the other side, three precious spheres hidden in the player team's
defensive zone.

### Designing the Arena

Archmages use powerful magic to design globi arenas, often putting 400
square meters of jungle next to a small lake or desert. Each one of
these zones may contain either an **obstacle**---some sort of active yet
stationary aspect that opposes the characters moving through the
zone---or a [[challenge]]---an animated creature or construct that might
even pursue a character from zone to zone.

Challenges are supercharged mooks (FAE, page 38) with two aspects, a
strong skill mode ranging from +2 to +6, and a few stress boxes;
obstacles are static threats that oppose movement through a zone with at
least one aspect and a skill rating affixed to the aspect that's used to
impede the young athletes. Players can try to outrun or attack
challenges---if a mook can't absorb an attack with stress boxes, it
falls---but they have to deal with an obstacle each time they want to
move through that zone.

When you lay out the arena, take six index cards and write challenges on
the first three and obstacles on the remaining three. Add three blank
cards to the stack, and put all nine cards facedown on the table in
front of the players to form a 3x3 arena, placing the obstacles and
challenges in locations that you think will make the arena interesting.
(Label the cards on the back with letters, so everyone is clear about
which zone is which zone.) As players enter each zone, flip the cards
face up to reveal the obstacle or challenge that awaits them in that
zone, describing the fantastic or magical environments that the
archmages have constructed for the arena. The players have to deal with
the opposition before they can keep moving forward.

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v1issue3/graphic-03.png)

#### Placing Globi

In addition to the 3x3 grid, each team should also place four cards at
their respective end of the field. These four cards are the defensive
zone, the home turf for each team. Each team should describe what that
home turf looks like---it's home, after all, to their avatar---and
secretly note the starting location of their three globi and avatar in
those zones. Globi must always be placed in different zones to start and
cannot be moved or repositioned by the team that placed them until they
are removed from the defensive zone. Assuming all the players are on one
team, the GM can leave the room to let them discuss where they want to
place their resources.

Each team has three globi: a **heavy** **globi** that grows heavier when
lifted, a **plant** **globi** that sprouts vines and roots to ensnare
players, and a **monkey** **globi** that actively tries to squirm away
and run back home when removed.

#### Movement in Zones

Characters start in any of their team's defensive zones. At the start of
their turn in the action order, they can move freely into any adjoining
zone they want, provided they don't start in a zone with an obstacle or
challenge. If they are in a zone with an obstacle or challenge, they
must overcome those difficulties before moving into the next zone.
Characters must move to contiguous zones; teleporting between zones
isn't allowed in the globi arena.

When a character moves into a new zone, they should flip it face up if
it hasn't been revealed already. If they uncover a zone that's empty
with their movement action, they can use their regular action to move
into the next zone. Characters can look into the next zone to try to
determine what obstacles and challenges may reside there, but it takes a
magical spell---like Divination---to truly reveal what lies ahead.
Characters can also add new obstacles or challenges to zones, including
defensive zones, by creating magical advantages. These are less powerful
than the obstacles and challenges placed by the GM, but formidable
nonetheless.

At the same time that the players decide their starting position, the GM
should secretly note the starting position of the rival players. If
characters stumble upon a rival player, they may end up in a scuffle or
conflict. Remember that NPCs---including avatars---have a spot in the
action order too! Once an NPC has been discovered, however, their
movement is public until they move into an unrevealed zone (see "Rival
Players Off-Screen" for more).

### Globi As Opposition

Each globi has a unique way of fighting to keep itself from going into
the other team's defensive zone:

- **Heavy:** Each turn after being picked up, this globi acts as an
  obstacle that tries to keep whoever is lifting it from moving
  forward. In fact, it gets heavier each turn, adding +1 to its
  starting difficulty of Average (+1). Players must beat the current
  difficulty to move into the next zone.

- **Plant:** Each turn after being picked up, this globi attempts to
  place `Ensnared] on whoever is holding it using a "Magical"
  skill mode of Good (+3). Any players who are `Ensnared]
  must overcome the aspect before they can begin moving again.

- **Monkey:** Each turn after being picked up, this globi attempts to
  escape and run back to the other team's defensive zone using a
  "Physical" skill mode of Good (+3). If it manages to escape, it
  moves one zone per turn regardless of challenges or obstacles
  present.

Players may try to come up with interesting ways of battling these
effects, but they cannot dispel the globi's enchantments with magic. The
globi are protected with powerful anti-magic wards that vastly eclipse
the powers of high school students.

### Rival Players Off-Screen

As the Arcane High team moves down the field, dealing with the rival
team off-screen can be a bit tricky. You'll probably want to minimize
the spotlight time that NPC players get, but you also don't want players
to feel cheated when the NPCs blow past obstacles off-screen without
cost. Here are a few ways to balance the costs of the field against the
PC spotlight:

- **Remove the Fog of War:** It's fun to wonder where the NPCs are,
  but real sports don't obscure the positions of rival players. One
  way of dealing with the other team is to show their position on the
  board and make rolls for them as normal. This method will feel fair
  to your players, but loses some of the magic of the globi arena.

- **Let Fate Decide:** Roll 4df and assign each die to one of the four
  rival players when they are off-screen. A + result means that the
  player moved forward into the next zone, bypassing an obstacle; a -
  result means that there was some cost or penalty---like stress or a
  consequence---that kept the player from advancing; and a blank means
  that the player can't advance but doesn't suffer an immediate
  consequence. This method is quick and direct, subjecting NPCs to the
  same roll of the dice as the players, but doesn't differentiate
  between strong and weak obstacles or players.

- **Give Them Limited Passes:** If you want to really minimize time
  spent dealing with the opposition team, give each opposing player
  three passes that let them bypass an obstacle while they are
  off-screen. Once those passes are used up, they've got to take two
  actions to get past an obstacle. This method preserves some of the
  mystery, but might feel a little silly to your players when they're
  grappling with a big obstacle they can't get past early in the game.

Regardless of how you deal with off-screen NPCs, remember that they must
roll when they're on-screen---give the PCs a chance to interfere and
interrupt their progress!### Formations and Rosters

Not all games of globi are played with four players. Some matches
restrict rosters to only three players, while others expand it to five
or allow substitutions. Feel free to add or subtract athletes based on
the number of players in your gaming group, but make sure to raise or
lower the difficulty of the obstacles and challenges accordingly!#### Winning the Game

Characters can create advantages, attack each other, and overcome
obstacles while playing in the arena. Medical staff is standing by to
magically heal wounds, so most players don't worry too much about
getting hurt. Aggressive violence is frowned upon, but it's not entirely
against the rules.

If at any point, any of the team's globi are stolen and returned to the
rival team's avatar, the game is over. The avatar consumes the globi and
the archmages declare the match to be over. In more high-stakes games
like the Globi Cup or the professional leagues, teams might be required
to steal two or even three globi to win the game!### Fighting Avatars?

You can't destroy a team's avatar, but you can keep it tied up and busy
on the other side of the field if you think that your team might be able
to get a globi back to your avatar first!## First Session: Globi Match vs. The Iron Owls

Your first session of _**Arcane High**_ focuses on the players' team
competing in a regular season globi match against their rivals, the Iron
Owls. Matches are the heart of _**Arcane High**_, so devote as much of
the first session as you need to see an entire match play out. You can
follow up on the high school hijinks later!

This match is particularly meaningful because it's the best chance the
Arcane High team has at making it into the Global Academy Tournament.
Only the top team from each nation is selected to go on to the global
round, and the Iron Owls have a two-game lead on Arcane High's scrappy
team. Can they win this match and close the gap?### Possible Costs for Failure

Minor Costs: 1 stress, expose your position, drop a globi

Major Costs: 2 stress, lose control of a spell, get trapped in a zone### Opening Aspects

Each zone of the arena has a different environment, but the whole course
has a few aspects that apply more universally. You might want to place a
free invoke on each of these to encourage players to make use of them
during the match.

Opening Aspects: `Mists and Fog], `Windy Trails], `A
Chance for Glory]

### Opposition: Challenges and Obstacles

This globi match has gotten a lot of attention, given that it's likely
to determine which American team is going to move forward in the
tournament. The archmages who designed the course have constructed a set
of dynamic and exciting challenges and obstacles.

### Challenges## The Black Knight

### aspects

`The Great Sword of Night] â¢ `Darkness Elemental]

### Skill modes

+4 Attacking With a Sword, Absorbing Direct Attacks
-2 Piercing Illusions, Pursuing Athletes

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

## Mighty Mimic Toad

### aspects

`Poisonous Skin] â¢ `Hypnoeyes]

### Skill modes

+3 Casting Illusion Spells, Capturing Athletes
-2 Avoiding Ranged Attacks, Moving Quickly

### Stress

â¡â¡

## Water Sprite

### aspects

`Siren Song Singer] â¢ `Bound by the Lake]

### Skill modes

+2 Calling to Athletes, Whispering Secrets
-2 Directly Confronting Danger

### Stress

â¡#### Obstacles

- Fantastic (+6) **Sentient Trees**

- Great (+4) **Magical Quicksand**

- Good (+3) **Steep Cliffs**

#### Opposition: The Iron Owls

The Iron Owls are a formidable team, easily capable of walking away with
a win against Arcane High. They have one star player, Octavia Reyes, but
the other three players on the Owls are fairly strong contenders
themselves. Not to mention their avatar, an iron construct that stands
over eight feet tall and weighs more than two tons!## Iron Owls Players

### aspects

Position: `Nearly Professional Players]
Drama: `Too Used to Winning]

### Approaches

Good (+3) Forceful
Fair (+2) Flashy, Quick
Average (+1) Careful, Clever
Mediocre (+0) Sneaky

### Notes

Oliva may have slightly higher approaches or a stunt or two that might
make her a better player, depending on how much you want to challenge
your players.

## The Iron Owl

### aspects

`Iron Claws] â¢ `Wings of Steel] â¢ `"Who Goes
There?"]

### Skill modes

+4 Catching Sneaky Players
+2 Attacking With Claws, Flying Towards Targets
-1 Avoiding Detection

### Approaches

_**Arcane High**_ uses approaches for NPCs, as if they were PCs
themselves. These NPCs can also gang up and assist each other---if three
or four Iron Owl players decide to tackle a PC, they would each add +1
to the roll to pin the PC to the ground, provided they have an approach
they can use rated at a +1 or better. Avatars, challenges, and
obstacles, on the other hand, use skill modes instead of approaches, and
roll a +0 if no skill mode applies.## Plot Hooks and Adventure Seeds

The opening globi match of _**Arcane High**_ isn't the end of the
adventure. The players may have won or lost the game at hand, but
there's still a Globi Cup at stake. And don't forget the impending
issues! Here are a few plot hooks and adventure seeds to keep the story
going, varying the tone and pace of scenes after the initial match
against the Iron Owls:

### Reign of Terror

After a late night senior prank at Arcane High leaves several floors of
the school underwater, Principal Montoya issues orders to crack down on
troublemakers, pranksters, and slackers at Arcane High. All the usual
trouble that the team causes at school is suddenly going to land them in
the principal's office...and maybe even off the team! It sounds simple
to stick to the rules, but it's hard to resist doing magic without
permission, exploring the secret passageways throughout the school, and
scuffling with rival cliques. Can the PCs behave themselves until the
next match? What kind of tricks and trouble are they willing to risk
pulling under Montoya's nose anyway?

### Iron Owl Transfer

Immediately following the game against the Iron Owls, Coach Radford
tells the team that a new player will be joining them for the next
match: Octavia Reyes. Her family is moving from Boston back to Chicago,
which means that Octavia will be attending Arcane for the rest of the
semester. Everyone knows that Octavia would rather still play for the
Owls, but the Globi Council hasn't approved such a transfer in decades.
Can Octavia be trusted to play hard for Arcane High? Or is this all an
elaborate trick by Dr. Singh to ensure that the Iron Owls rise above the
competition at a crucial moment?

### Pro Globi Scouts

Everyone knows that only a few globi players a year make it up to the
professional globi league---pro globi is a totally different game,
filled with dangerous monsters, cross-dimensional globi balls, and
ruthless celebrity politics. But when three pro globi scouts show up at
the next Arcane High practice, students and staff start buzzing that
there might be more than one potential superstar on the team. Who is
most likely to get called up to the major league after graduating? Is it
worth skipping college to play globi on a team that might not care about
the players as much as they care about the money? And who did these
scouts come to see in the first place?### Open Slots

All of the sample characters have an open stunt slot. You can fill that
in during the first match or save it for your first scenes at Arcane
High! After all, not everything happens in the globi arena....

## Auggie Radford

Auggie is Coach Radford's kid, and that means that she expects him to be
the star player. Fortunately, Auggie has his mom's intellect, and he's
been studying and drilling since he started playing at the age of five.
Dealing with his mom as the new coach isn't easy, but he's got things
under control. If only Lysander would respect him for what he brings to
the team!

### aspects

Position: `Walking Playbook]
Drama: `My Mom's the Coach]
Teammate: `Jealous of Lysander]

### approaches

Good (+3) Careful
Fair (+2) Clever, Sneaky
Average (+1) Flashy, Forceful
Mediocre (+0) Quick

### Stunts

**All the Spells.** Because I know All the Spells, I get a +2 when I
Cleverly defend with counterspells.

**Done the Drills.** Because I've Done the Drills, I get a +2 to
Carefully overcome obstacles in the arena.

_<empty stunt slot>_

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Jacobo Martinez

Jacobo doesn't like to play the fool. He's got things figured out, from
the midfield of the globi arena to the answers for tomorrow's Summoning
midterm. Of course, that big brain of his gets him into trouble as often
as it wins him the game and he's glad to have his friends and teammates
around when things go sour. He's even willing to try to repay Auggie's
many acts of kindness by teaching him how to rig the game off the field.

### aspects

Position: `Midfield Manipulator]
Drama: `Professional Cheater]
Teammate: `Teaching Auggie to Fish]

### approaches

Good (+3) Careful
Fair (+2) Quick, Sneaky
Average (+1) Careful, Flashy
Mediocre (+0) Forceful

### Stunts

**Seeing Is Believing.** Because I'm a master of illusions I get a +2
when I Cleverly defend against opposing illusions.

**Fast Breaker.** Because I'm a Fast Breaker, I can spend a [[fate point]]
to outrun a challenge into the next zone.

_<empty stunt slot>_

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Jill Fortescue

Jill's got a reputation as a bad girl and an even worse student. She's
taller than everyone else, even the oldest boys at Arcane High, and she
knows how to use her size to knock around smaller teams before they even
know what hit them. Sadly, she's got a crush on Jacobo that's dragging
her into some real trouble---she recently took the fall for him when he
got caught cheating on an Elemental Magic practicum.

### aspects

Position: `Bone Crusher]
Drama: `Bad Reputation]
Teammate: `Took the Fall for Jacobo]

### approaches

Good (+3) Forceful
Fair (+2) Clever, Flashy
Average (+1) Quick, Sneaky
Mediocre (+0) Careful

### Stunts

**Linebacker.** Because I'm a Linebacker, I can Forcefully attack two
characters at the same time once per session.

**Charge!** Because I know how to Charge the opposition, I add +2 when I
Forcefully attack immediately after moving into a zone.

_<empty stunt slot>_

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Lysander Jones

Lysander is the rising star at Arcane High, the new kid who is getting
all the accolades and applause for swiping rival globi and returning
them to the defensive zone. She's good at playing defense too, leading
plenty of people to talk about her as a potential pro player despite her
consistent academic problems. Thankfully, she can turn to Jill to talk
about her difficulty handling all this fame in the middle of so many
important classes.

### aspects

Position: `Snake in the Grass]
Drama: `Academic Probation]
Teammate: `Jill Is My Confidante]

### approaches

Good (+3) Sneaky
Fair (+2) Clever, Quick
Average (+1) Careful, Forceful
Mediocre (+0) Flashy

### Stunts

**Home Turf Defender.** Because I am a Home Turf Defender, I get a +2
when I Carefully create advantages in the defensive zone.

**Fast Tracker.** Because I am a Fast Tracker, I can move an extra zone
while pursuing someone who has the ball.

_<empty stunt slot>_

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### Notes

Refresh: 3