---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Blue Collar Necromancy

by [[Jacob Possin]]

> It's just a job, dealing with this stuff. The high and the mighty talk
> all day about High Sorcery and Holy Alchemy, but when things go wrong
> the necromancers come in to fix the problem. There ain't no theory in
> necromancy, it is practical know-how that matters. All the book
> learnin' in the world won't save you from the eldritch horrors and
> their minions. It's a dirty job. It's a messy job. It's our job.
>
> -Jedidiah Black, Veteran Necromancer

## Magics of the Modern World

Magic has always existed. It was dark and mysterious, the power of the
gods. For thousands of years, witch doctors, god talkers, and shamans
kept the secrets of magic and used them to keep back the night. Three
hundred years ago, two events upset this equilibrium: the discovery of
High Sorcery and the Church's monopoly on Alchemy. Thus began the
primacy of the greater magics and the decline of the old magics, the
basis of modern necromancy.

### High Sorcery, High Alchemy

The discovery of High Sorcery by Gretta the Great changed everything.
She unearthed the secrets of manipulating aether, the breath of the
gods. Only a select few had the ability, and Gretta gathered all she
could to her banner, leading directly to the first Lineage of High
Sorcerers.

At around the same time, a man named Christophe Victorine left the
Hermetic Order and wrote _Une étude de l'âme de la Matière_, A Study of
the Soul of Matter. It set out the precepts of alchemy and how it
related to humanity's place in the universe. More importantly, its
contents worked consistently and well. The Church destroyed all copies
of the book save for those they controlled. This was the beginning of
Holy Alchemy, and the Church's monopoly on technology and science.

### The Fall of the Old Ways

As these discoveries were made and these power bases began to grow, the
shamans and priests of the old ways began to lose prestige, seen as
rudimentary and superstitious. Only the most dedicated or desperate
would remain practitioners, and the skills and knowledge took on a
distasteful new name.

Many called these old ways black magic---not because they were evil, but
because they were seen as a remnant of a darker age when magic was
simple and rough. Much like a garbage collector or a plumber, these
practitioners were seen as necessary but undignified. As High Sorcery
and Alchemy rose in power over centuries, it was thought that these
practices would fade from the world. Then the war began.

### The War and Rise of the Dead

The Final War began when Princess Brunhilde of Austria-Hungary was
assassinated by an anti-royalist group said to have received funding
from the British. War came quickly to these two nations, drawing in the
allies and enemies of both. During the conflict, horrors were unleashed
upon the world, weapons and magics never before seen. The death toll was
incalculable.

Influenza and attrition ended the war fifteen years ago, but the wounds
suffered---mental and physical---have yet to fully heal. Plagues
followed the war as flies follow garbage. Economies crashed and a great
depression set in. Some claim these are but signs of the true horrors to
come.

During the aftermath of the war, necromancy's necessity became apparent.
The millions dead or dying---and the millions more mourning the loss of
life---unbalanced the universe, threatening cities and towns alike.
Necromancy slowly rose as a profession once more, unpleasant but
essential in a world filled with the dead. Yet after ten years, the
scars are still burnt into the aether. There has been no rain in the
farm lands for years, and the dust storms rattle across the Great
Plains. The despair and horror create more ghosts every year, and draw
in things far worse than that.

## Setting Creation

As a Quick Start Adventure, _**Blue Collar Necromancy**_ has everything
you need to jump right into your first session. Before you start, you'll
want to discuss the broader setting with your group. The game is set in
Chicago in early 1934---the height of the Great Depression---so read
aloud parts of the setting you think they need to know.

At the start of play, explain the current issue to your players and ask
them to fill in one or two additional faces associated with the issue.
These extra characters will provide new plot hooks and twists to tie
your players more deeply to the strange phenomena they face as
necromancers. Then ask your players to choose from one of the two
available impending issues: `Those Who Meddle] and `End of the
World]. Have them fill in one or two additional faces for their
chosen impending issue, as well, rounding out the larger cast of
characters.

### Current Issue: Undead on the Rise

With the Great Depression and the remnants of the Great War, the aether
is out of balance. The weather and the soil have begun to turn on
folk---many say it is due to the undead or the overuse of High Sorcery
or Holy Alchemy. Nobody's quite sure why it is happening, but everyone
is quick to blame. Suicide and murder are on the rise, and the dust that
gets kicked up is causing all manner of maladies. The dead are not
getting proper funerals. It is not just ghosts on the rise---zombis and
evil spirits are arriving in record numbers.

**Faces:**

- Thomas Kildere, a doctor devoted to unlocking the secrets of life
  and death.

- The Ghost of Adler House, the ghost of Henry Adler, formerly an
  outspoken advocate for the lower classes.` `

``## Thomas Kildere

### Aspects

High Concept: `Well-To-Do Doctor]

Trouble: `The Resurrection Man]

Other Aspects: `Knowledge Is My Scalpel], `"Friends" High and
Low], `Genius Is Madness]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Lore]]

Good (+3): [[Contacts]], [[Resources]]

Fair (+2): [[Deceive]], [[Rapport]], [[Will]]

Average (+1): [[Crafts]], [[Investigate]], [[Notice]], [[Provoke]]

### Stress

Mental: □□□

Physical: □□

### Stunts

Truth of the Bones. Gain a +2 to Investigation when dealing with corpses
or cadavers.

Maddening Intellect. You may use [[Lore]] to defend against [[Provoke]],
provided you can justify it through the use of information or logic.

Weight of Reputation. Gain a +2 to [[Contacts]] when you defend against lies
attempting to besmirch your name.

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)### Impending issue: Those Who Meddle

The sorcerers at the college have begun to disappear and there are signs
of spirit activity related to this. In truth, a vampire is attempting to
overcome the limitations of the half-dead and become truly immortal. His
very presence is polluting the aether, making ghosts and other phenomena
more common. If left to his own devices, he will kill and devour,
unbalancing the aether even more.

**Faces:**

- Lord Fillip, a vampire from Spain, recently arrived in town to
  kidnap magical theoreticians in order to further his research into
  immortality.
- Dr. Hugo Riccardo, a professor of magical theory who is searching
  for his missing graduate students.

### Impending Issue: End of the World

A prominent businessman has decided that the world has grown corrupt and
evil, and wishes to destroy it by summoning the Great Unchanged. Over
the years he has constructed several odd buildings at specific
locations. Each of these was designed to enhance and channel the
aetheric energies. Should he and his doomsday cult succeed, the Titans,
the Jotun, and worse will return, and all will suffer.

Faces:

- Father Mallory, a local priest concerned with the rising number of
  undead.

- Herschel, a businessman-turned-cult leader who seeks the end of the
  world in the service of the Great Unchanged.

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v2issue5/epub-cards-2.png)

## Character Creation

In Blue Collar Necromancy you take on the role of necromancers
attempting to drive back the darkness and save the living from the
ravages of the dead. No one respects the job you do, but you are the
last line of defense between mankind and the end of the world.

Blue Collar Necromancy is designed for use with [[Fate Core]]. Create the
characters as normal, save for a small change in aspect generation and
the addition of a new skill; complete only two phases of the phase trio
for your character, and use the final aspect for a necromancy
aspect---explaining why your character chose to hunt ghosts and put them
to rest.

After creating characters, the players should take a few moments
describing their office and their relationship with the powers-that-be.
Remind them that the relationship is strained. They provide a useful
service, but no one likes to pay them to do such a dirty job. Discuss a
few previous jobs and how they went.### About Necromancy

Necromancy has become organized in response to the rising number of
spiritual threats. Necromancers have societies, guilds, or unions that
have negotiating power with the authorities. When ghosts crop up, folks
know to go to the central office of the necromantic community.### Necromancy

Necromancy is, at heart, dealing with horrible things from outside the
normal universe---primarily the undead and the restless dead. Other
things reside outside the universe; some will trade information, and
some are just pests to be kept out.### High Sorcery and Holy Alchemy

High Sorcery and Holy Alchemy are important magical practices, but they
are not available to Player Characters. Blue Collar Necromancy focuses
on necromancy and those who practice it. If you eventually expand to
include higher magics, here are some quick setting notes:

- Sorcery is born of the blood, from your mother's side.
- Sorcerers have supernal skill in an area and can grant boons to
  their followers.
- Holy Alchemy is the manipulation of base matter and energy.
- Through sacrifices and rituals, Alchemists create any material they
  need.

## Necromancy Skill

The Necromancy skill captures the training, talents, and skills of those
who can manipulate the dead, often working to send them on to their
final rest or destroy them completely. There are no prerequisite skills
for Necromancy; all you need is to study the topic and select it as a
skill. Oddly enough, some of the best monster hunters, while part of a
necromancer organization, do not have the Necromancy skill.

![[oc_r.svg|30 ]][[Overcome]]: Use this skill to force a ghost into corporeal
manifestation for a short while (allowing the more physical necromancers
to fight the beast directly). It also can be used to summon a spirit,
demon, or ghost, though it is very difficult without the creature's true
name. This skill does not reveal information about spirits.

![[adv_r.svg|30 ]][[Create Advantage]]: When you need to set up a special ritual circle
or implement that will aid in dealing with a spirit, demon, undead, or
tear in the universe, you can use Necromancy to create an aspect related
to some necromantic tool.

![[att_r.svg|30 ]][[Attack]]: Cannot be used to attack directly.

![[def_r.svg|30 ]][[Defend]]: Cannot be used to defend directly.

### Necromancy Stunts

**Hardened Soul.** When summoning a spirit or ghost, you may reduce the
stress dealt to you on a failure by one.

**Practical Magic.** If you succeed with style on a Necromancy roll to
overcome an obstacle, you create a full aspect rather than a boost.#### Necromantic Summoning

Removing ghosts and other spiritual entities requires work. The
Necromancy skill is only useful after you have gathered the correct
information. Once you have the ingredients and requisite information,
you must perform a summoning ritual to bring the spiritual entity to
you. This is a dangerous proposition, as your spirit must touch the one
you are contacting and draw it back in. If something goes wrong, you
could die. Once you have the creature bound in a circle, you must either
make it physically manifest so it can be fought directly, or you must
engage verbally with the creature and convince it to leave this mortal
plane.

You will need several things in order to bind a ghost: the ghost's True
Name, its connection to the world, its weakness, and the properly
created circle and accoutrements (goat or chicken blood, incense,
sanctified salt, and more esoteric items). The difficulty of summoning a
ghost is based on its power. Poltergeists are the most powerful and
require a difficulty +8 (Legendary) to summon. Knockers are less
powerful and require a difficulty +6 (Fantastic) to summon. Haunts are
the weakest type of ghost and only require a difficulty +4 (Great) to
summon. These numbers are high, but for each task you have completed,
you may lower that difficulty by 1. If you fail the Necromancy roll, you
take stress equal to the difference you failed by. Should the stress
cause a consequence, the ghost gains an attachment to your character and
a bonus of +1 to one of its skills for the remainder of the game. Ghosts
gain power by creating emotional links to others.### Summoning Results

**Fail:** The spirit appears, but it is not bound within the circle and
it has done the difference of the roll to the summoner in stress.

**Tie:** It appears and is bound, but has dealt one stress to the
summoner.

**Success:** It appears and is bound within the circle. It cannot leave
the circle unless someone breaks the circle.

**Success with Style:** You also gain a boost on the ghost.### The Nature of Undeath

The undead come in many shapes and forms, but they tend to fall into one
of three categories:

#### The Restless Dead

When aether becomes unbalanced, it focuses on points of great human
emotion. Wars, funerals, murders, and suicides are lightning rods for
aether imbalance, though no one is sure why. When that emotion builds
up, it draws a piece of the soul out and creates a ghost. The greater
the emotion, the more powerful and unbalanced the ghost or spirit. The
longer a ghost exists, the more power it has. The ghost's power is
connected to the number of people who have had a negative encounter with
the ghost. Ghosts feed on the pain of the living.

#### The Hungry Dead

Sometimes a burial goes wrong. Sometimes the subtle humors of the body
remain after the soul has passed. This is when the hungry dead rise.
There's nothing left of the soul---only the desires of the flesh remain.
The simplest of the hungry dead are the zombi. Those few that survive
long enough go through a transformation. They become guhls. Faster,
stronger, and more cunning, the guhls hunt actively for prey. Should
there be enough aether around to draw it in, a spirit or demon can
inhabit the guhl, granting it powers and intelligence and enhancing its
appetites. Beware the demon-infested guhl.

#### The Half Dead

When an Alchemist or Sorcerer tries to gain life eternal, an exchange
must be made: a life for a life. As time passes, these now damned
individuals must kill more and more to continue their existence. The
magics slowly drive the users mad, shattering their soul, and something
else inhabits the body. This is where vampires, werewolves, mummies, and
others originate. Experiments in immortality always fail.

### Spiritual Aspects

Spirits have two aspects that motivate them. Passion is their driving
emotion, a simple and direct negative emotion, as those are the easiest
for the dead to deal with. The Secret is their hidden self---anything
from memories they cling to and repeat over and over, to a strong
affinity for an object or person. Spirit minds are fragmented, so they
often cannot express why their secret is important or even remember what
it is.

Spiritual beings have a broad set of skills that let them interact with
the world of flesh. As creatures of emotion that require strong
connections to grow in strength, many of their abilities are focused on
creating advantages and attacking mortals' mental stress tracks.

**Elements:** the ghost can increase or decrease the temperature of a
room, shake the ground, or create strange phenomena (like blood dripping
from walls and the like).

**Sounds:** from ominous whispers to terrifying, booming shouts. Ghosts
can terrify with auditory commands.

**Knocking:** pushing objects over, flinging them across the room,
stacking them in unusual formations.

**Attachment:** ghosts can elicit strange feelings in people, bursts of
intense emotion that seem to come from nowhere. This also can cause
terrifying nightmares.

These abilities are relative to the strength of the ghost. A poltergeist
will have +7, +5, +3, +1, A knocker will have +4, +3, +2, +1. A haunt
will have one at +3, one at +1 and the remainder at 0. Should the ghost
deal a consequence to a Player Character, increase one of the ghost's
skills by +1. A ghost has stress based on its Attachment skill, equal to
the rating.## Sarah Rackham

An old and powerful ghost who haunts an orphanage.

### Aspects

Passion: Protect What Is Mine

Secret: All Children Are Mine

### Skills

Great (+4): Attachment

Good (+3): Sounds

Fair (+2): Elements

Average (+1): Knocking

### Stress

□□□□## Undead on the Rise

The characters are approached with a job by the police. A man has been
murdered and it looks like a zombi attack. The murder scene is the Adler
Mansion, a labyrinth of a building on a sprawling estate.

### Scene 1: A Dark Intelligence

The Adlers, a well-to-do family of great wealth and renown, claim to
have no knowledge of what happened, only that they've had otherworldly
issues with the family estate. A ghost of some power has begun to exert
influence over the family. Both the zombi and the ghost are of the
eldest son, Henry.

As the PCs investigate, some facts will crop up: there are signs of a
haunting throughout the house, and the family is very evasive about
Henry, claiming he has been on an extended business trip for the last
year---the same timeframe for the strange happenings. While the PCs
search the house, the zombi is hunting them.

With a connection to the ghost borne from its creation, the zombi has
more subtlety than most and attacks only when it becomes difficult to
leave the house. While filthy and terrible to behold, the clothing it
wears is of the highest quality and tailor fit. The zombi is the notable
villain, but the ghost will also take turns to quietly grant aspects to
the zombi and manipulate the situation to gain power. Play up the
strange effects of the situation and let the players know something is
feeding on them. The zombi fights until defeated.

To properly put a zombi down, you need to complete a challenge scene:
the necromancers need to hold the thing in place ([[Physique]] vs +3
difficulty), incant the ritual (Necromancy vs +2), and then burn the
body and salt the ashes ([[Resources]] vs +1 to have the right materials on
hand, or a [[Investigate]] vs +2 to find and use makeshift materials that
will do in a pinch).

Aspects: `No One Wants a Necromancer Here]; `Labyrinthian
Decadence]; `Emotion in the Air]; `Secrets Buried
Deep]### Remaining in Place

The longer a ghost remains in a place, the more the aether becomes
unbalanced. Things decay at uneven rates. Chairs molder and fall apart
right next to imperishable bowls of fruit. Rats, mice, and insects
appear in great numbers, alongside shrews, bats, spiders, and cats. If
the ghost exists long enough, time and space can become muddled, as
well. Hallways will stretch on forever, or they will disappear in a
single step. In a truly haunted house, nights can last a lifetime.

## The Police Detective

### Aspects

`Let the Necromancers Deal with This Nightmare], `Appearance of
Competence], `Corrupt Bully]

### Skills

Good (+3): [[Investigate]]

Fair (+2): [[Contacts]]

Average (+1): [[Provoke]]

## Percival Adler

### Aspects

`Leader of a Powerful Noble Family]

`Don't We Have People for this Sort of Thing?]

`Keep It All in the Family]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Resources]]

Good (+3): [[Contacts]]

Fair (+2): [[Deceive]]

Average (+1): [[Rapport]]

## Mary Adler

### Aspects

`Doting Daughter]

`Beautiful on the Outside, Broken on the Inside]

`Manipulative Schemer]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Deceive]]

Good (+3): [[Resources]]

Fair (+2): [[Notice]]

Average (+1): [[Empathy]]

## Horatio Adler

### Aspects

`Black Sheep of the Family], `Emotionally Unstable],
`Great Power Requires Great Ambition]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Deceive]]

Good (+3): [[Rapport]]

Fair (+2): [[Contacts]]

Average (+1): [[Burglary]]

## The Zombi

### Aspects

`Powerful and Fast Undead Killing Machine]

`Connected to a Ghost]

`Betrayal and Rage Are All That Remain]

### Skills

Fantastic (+6): [[Fight]]

Superb (+5): [[Physique]]

Great (+4): [[Athletics]], [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

**Strange Connection.** Whenever the zombi deals a consequence to a PC,
treat it as if the ghost of Henry had done the consequence (increasing
its connection to the PCs and increasing its power).

**Killing Stroke.** Once per scene when a PC would take a consequence,
the zombi can increase the severity of the consequence taken.

### Stress

□□□□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

## The Ghost of Henry Adler

### aspects

Passion: `Wrath Against the Living]

Secret: `My Family Must Pay]

### Skills

Epic (+7): Elements

Superb (+5): Attachment

Good (+3): Sounds

Average (+1): Knocking### Scene 2: The Grind

Once the PCs are deep in the house, the ghost will try to place aspects
on the scene to hinder the PCs and get them to fear it. It gets one
[[create advantage]] roll for every PC die roll. Throughout, make sure the
PCs understand that something is interfering with them. They are
necromancers; they'll know what to do. This scene involves gathering the
information, tools, and resources required to summon the ghost.

#### Information the PCs may gather from the house and NPCs:

- The ghost's True Name is Henry Adler.
- Mary and Horatio teamed up to kill him so they would inherit.
- The ghost is weak to any artifacts of its mother, Beatrice.
- Beatrice died of influenza and all of her things are sealed up in
  the attic.
- The ghost is connected to the location of its murder, the root
  cellar beneath the kitchen.
- Percival has been ill recently; this is due to slow poison by his
  daughter and brother.

While the PCs travel through the house and talk to the detective and the
Adlers, the ghost will be continuously trying to harm them. Stress does
not go away---there is no rest on this job. Players should see you spend
the [[fate point]]s against them. Make sure aspects in use are visible so
they can try to remove them or use them in interesting ways against the
ghost.

### Scene 3: It All Falls Apart

When the PCs summon the ghost, the last act of the story begins. If they
make it manifest, this final confrontation is a straight fight: the
ghost can attack with Knocking or Elements and defend with Attachment or
Elements. When enough stress has been inflicted, it will disperse.
Should there be more than a minor consequence to one or more of the PCs,
there is a chance that it'll come back in the future, with a different
connection and weakness, based on how they took it out.

If they decide to talk it into letting go, the PCs must engage in a
contest with the ghost. It will use Attachment as its primary rolling
skill and use the other skills to build advantages. If it succeeds, it
wants the whole family dead before it will go away, and it breaks free
of the circle. If it loses, then it disperses and never troubles the
world again. The players can negate one of the ghost's successes by
taking a consequence, and if the uncle and sister were arrested prior to
summoning the ghost, they start with a one success lead.

## Plot Hooks and Adventure Seeds

### Digging into the Nature of Things

After the fight with the undead in the Adler house, there will be some
cleanup. The body needs to be laid to rest and there may be evidence of
misdeeds to be handed to the proper authorities or kept as leverage. In
the chaos that follows, the body of Henry Adler goes missing. Dr.
Kildere has hired thugs to get ahold of the remains of a zombi. For what
dark purpose does the Resurrection Man want zombi remains? Can the
necromancers stop him?

### Love of Fear

College boys have gone missing at a local university. One every week for
the last month. The police have had no luck in finding them. Last week,
a body turned up drained of blood. Rumors begin to fly that a vampire is
loose on the campus. The detective in charge of the investigation has
been told to bring in necromancers in case it is true. [[Will]] the
necromancers find the vampire before more young men go missing? How old
must the vampire be to need a victim a week? What do they do when the
police obstruct their investigations?

### Sounds from the Void

Father Mallory has come to the necromancers for help. He believes a
social club started by Herschel is seeking to end the world. The
Diomedes Club is filled with rich and powerful members of society
seeking to remake the world in their image. [[Will]] the father get past his
bias as a priest and alchemist and deal fairly with the necromancers?
Can they stop the plots of the mad cult? What horrors has the cult
summoned and kept in the depths of their club? +

## Sample Characters## Jedidiah Black

The bastard son of a noble house, Jedidiah had no place in the world of
high society or low. He naturally fell to the outskirts. In his teen
years, he ran into a haunting and the group of necromancers who dealt
with it. He found he had a knack for ghost hunting. He's been doing it
ever since, much to the chagrin of his family.

### Aspects

High Concept: `Hardened Ghost Hunter]

Trouble: `Bastard Son of a Noble House]

Necromancy: `Hunting Is My Calling]

Other: `Sally Is My Responsibility] • `Dorothy Needs
Watching]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Fight]]

Good (+3): [[Athletics]], [[Physique]]

Fair (+2): [[Notice]], [[Shoot]], [[Will]]

Average (+1): [[Burglary]], [[Contacts]], [[Drive]], [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

**Ghost Fighter.** When fighting ghosts, you deal two additional stress
on a successful attack.

**Unkillable.** Once per session, at the cost of a [[fate point]], you can
reduce the severity of a moderate consequence that's physical in nature
to a mild consequence (if your mild consequence slot is free), or erase
a mild consequence altogether.

**Push through the Pain.** You can choose to ignore a mild or moderate
consequence for the duration of the scene. It can't be compelled against
you or invoked by your enemies. At the end of the scene, it comes back
worse, though; a mild consequence becomes moderate, and if it was
already moderate, it becomes severe.

### Stress

Mental □□□

Physical □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

## Dorothy Bullock

She never wanted to be a necromancer. She started as a researcher,
looking into mystic theory. The further she looked, the more she desired
to understand the older methods, "the underpinnings of the universe," as
she called it. She went freelance, joining any union or firm she could.
She has stolen several necromancers' techniques this way, and is looking
to add Church's techniques to her own.

### Aspects

High Concept: `Professor of Magic Theory]

Trouble: `Unrepentant Glory Hound]

Necromancy: `All the Secrets of the Universe]

Other: `I [[Will]] Have Church's Techniques Sally Is a Useful
Lever]

### Skills

Great (+4): [[Deceive]]

Good (+3): [[Lore]], Necromancy

Fair (+2): [[Contacts]], [[Empathy]], [[Will]]

Average (+1): [[Fight]], [[Notice]], [[Physique]], [[Rapport]]

### Stunts

**Backup Weapon.** Whenever someone's about to hit you with a Disarmed
[[situation aspect]] or something similar, spend a [[fate point]] to declare you
have a backup weapon. Instead of a [[situation aspect]], your opponent gets
a boost, representing the momentary distraction you suffer having to
switch.

**Mind Games.** You can use [[Deceive]] in place of [[Provoke]] to make mental
attacks, as long as you can make up a clever lie as part of the attack.

**Practical Magic.** If you succeed with style on a Necromancy roll you
create a full aspect rather than a boost.

### Stress

Mental □□□

Physical □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

## Church

His name is not Church, but that is what everyone calls him. He is the
founding member of this necromantic union, and the last of the old
guard. Recently Church has been mentoring his granddaughter in the ways
of Necromancy. He fears the family's methods will die out, and wants to
pass on his wisdom while he still can. He has seen just about everything
there is to see. He worries that he has begun to lose his edge.

### Aspects

High Concept: `Grizzled Veteran Necromancer]

Trouble: `Age and Despair]

Necromancy: `The Traditions Must Be Passed on]

Other: `My Granddaughter Is the Last of My Line Dorothy Is Gunning for
Me]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Investigate]]

Good (+3) Necromancy, [[Will]]

Fair (+2) [[Contacts]], [[Notice]], [[Provoke]]

Average (+1) Craft, [[Drive]], [[Fight]], [[Rapport]]

### Stunts

**Human Lie Detector.** You can use [[Investigate]] instead of [[Empathy]] to
defend against [[Deceive]] attempts. What others discover through gut
reactions and intuition, you learn through careful observation of
expressions and body language.

**Unflappable.** +2 to defend against [[Provoke]] attacks specifically
related to intimidation and fear.

**I've Been Around a While.** Whenever someone initiates a conflict
against you in an area where you've built a network of contacts, you use
[[Contacts]] instead of [[Notice]] to determine turn order, because you got
tipped off in time.

### Stress

Mental □□

Physical □□□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

## Sally Obannon

The only child of her generation in the Obannon family, Sally expressed
interest in Necromancy from an early age and devoted a great deal of
study to it. She is currently apprenticed under her grandfather, Church.
She dreams of bringing back the old days, when necromancers went by
other names and were respected.

### Aspects

High Concept: `Prodigy Necromancer in Training]

Trouble: `Leaps Before Looking]

Necromancy: `I [[Will]] Bring Glory Back to Necromancy]

Other: `Grandfather Is Far Too Serious Secret Crush on Jed]

### Skills

Great (+4) Necromancy

Good (+3) [[Empathy]], [[Rapport]]

Fair (+2) [[Investigate]], [[Notice]], [[Will]]

Average (+1) [[Athletics]], [[Deceive]], [[Lore]], [[Provoke]]

### Stunts

**Optimistic Charmer.** Once per session you can reduce someone else's
consequence by one level of severity (severe to moderate, moderate to
mild, mild to nothing at all) by succeeding on an [[Empathy]] roll with a
difficulty of Fair (+2) for a mild consequence, Good (+3) for moderate,
or Great (+4) for severe. You must speak with the person for at least a
half an hour in order for this effect to take place.

**Namer.** You may use [[Investigate]] in place of [[Lore]] when searching for a
True Name.

**Necromantic Prodigy.** Gain a +2 to Necromancy overcome rolls for
summoning poltergeists.

### Stress

Mental □□

Physical □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

