---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Conflict Countdown

_by Brendan Conway_

``

Fate conflicts sometimes have a tendency to run a little long. At first,
conflicts are exciting and thrilling---filled with gun-toting dinosaurs
and two-fisted pulp heroes---but when battles turn into slogs to see who
can fill their opponent's stress track first, Fate conflicts lose a lot
of their punch. How can we ensure they stay fresh and interesting?

This piece discusses how to use a _**conflict countdown**_, a system to
ensure that your Fate conflicts never bog down and always remain punchy,
surprising, and interesting.

## Conflict Countdown: The Basics

When a conflict of any kind begins, set up three different stress tracks
of two boxes each to pace the fight. Together, these three stress tracks
are the _**conflict countdown**_. Each box is worth one stress: when the
stress track is hit for 1-stress, mark one box. Each stress track leads
to a _**twist**_.

``

These stress tracks are sequential---you start marking stress in the
first track, and you don't mark any boxes in the second stress track
until the first is filled. You can keep these stress tracks out in the
open for players to see, so they know how far along the track you've
filled.

During the conflict, mark 1-stress against your conflict countdown at
the end of every exchange---i.e., once every character in the conflict
has had one action---unless any PC in the conflict...

- succeeds with style on an attack or defense;
- inflicts or suffers a consequence; or
- compels a character using an existing aspect.

Each time you fill both stress boxes on any one of these three tracks in
your conflict countdown, create a twist at the start of the next round
of the conflict.

If every box of the conflict countdown is full when the countdown takes
another 1-stress hit, the battle ends in a shake-up (see below).

## Twists

A _**twist**_ is a change to the circumstances of the conflict,
something that complicates, expands, or redirects the stakes of the
battle. Twists make the conflicts ever-changing and interesting, but
they shouldn't give an advantage to the opposition or punish the
players. Instead, they keep the story moving whenever conflicts start to
bog down.

### Finding the Stakes

The first step to introducing a twist is to understand the stakes of the
conflict. What does each side really want? What does "victory" look
like? The two sides in a conflict may have more nuanced goals than
"punch the other guy until he falls down," but often the goals in
physical conflicts---"subdue the opposition"---and emotional
conflicts---"get the opposition to do **__**"---are fairly
straightforward.

Sometimes the stakes of the conflict are different for each side. In a
physical conflict, for example, one side might have the goal of subduing
the opposition, while the other has the goal of simply escaping.

### Twisting the Stakes

Once you know what the stakes are at the start of the conflict, you can
introduce a twist to expand on those stakes. Think of this as _adding
another clause_ to the existing stakes.

If the stakes of a fight between a gang of criminals and a group of
security guards are---on both sides---"subdue the opposition," then a
good twist would add the clause, "before the bomb goes off" or "while
being filmed by a news crew." The twist doesn't make things easier for
the criminals or the guards, but it does heighten the tension for both
sides.

### Complication, Expansion, or Redirection

Most twists fall into one of three categories: complications,
expansions, and redirections. Here are a few notes about each:

#### Complication

When you complicate the conflict with a twist, you add some factor that
makes it more difficult for both sides to achieve their aim in the
conflict. Don't give either side an advantage over the other!

**Bad complication:** One side of the conflict---the prisoners---just
wants to escape from prison, while the other side---the prison
guards---wants to subdue the escapees. When the countdown hits a twist,
the GM says, "The prison's security systems shut down, and all the doors
swing open!" Huge disadvantage for the guards!

**Good complication:** In the same situation, the GM says, "Someone
upstairs flipped open the rest of the prison cells, but not the exits,
and all the other prisoners surge out and a riot starts!" Both sides are
hindered, as the escapees have to navigate the riot while the guards
have plenty of other prisoners to deal with.

#### Expansion

When you expand the conflict with a twist, you add a new factor to the
conflict that makes it larger. A common and effective way to expand the
conflict is to add a new faction to the conflict with its own stakes.

**Bad expansion:** In the prison escape attempt, the conflict countdown
hits another twist. The GM says, "More guards come streaming in from
other parts of the prison!" That's not actually expanding the conflict
at all; it's just adding more guys to one side of the fight.

**Good expansion:** In the same situation, the GM says, "There's an
explosion above you, and then black-clad assassins holding automatic
weaponry come down through the ceiling, rappelling down ropes!" The
assassins want to kill one of the escapees, and will stop at nothing to
do so. The assassins and the guards won't be acting in concert at all,
and it certainly adds complications to the escapees' attempt to get out
of the prison.### Expanding the Conflict and NPC vs NPC Action

If you add a new side to the conflict, it might appear that there are
three sides at work: two factions of NPCs and one set of PCs. It might
make sense fictionally for the NPCs to fight against each other, but who
wants to watch that? If NPCs try to harm each other, have the side with
the higher skill level automatically inflict stress equal to the
difference in skill levels to the other side.#### Redirection

When you redirect the conflict with a twist, you change the stakes of
the conflict for both sides. You alter the situation, so what used to
matter is no longer the primary focus.

**Bad redirection:** The conflict countdown for the prison escape hits
another twist. This time, the GM says, "Noxious gas starts pouring into
the room from the air ducts and from the other corridors! Everybody who
breathes it starts choking!" Not only does this twist seem not to fit
fictionally with the situation, it also doesn't change the stakes for
one side of the conflict. The guards may switch their stakes from
subduing the escapees to simply surviving, but the escapees already
wanted to get out. Now, they just want to get out even more. Their
stakes haven't actually changed.

**Good redirection:** In the same situation, the GM instead says, "It
turns out that there's a camera crew here, filming some kind of
documentary or news report. They come rushing in to catch all the action
on film!" The guards now have to be worried about their actions being
filmed---if they show too much brutality, they might be in greater
trouble than otherwise. The escapees, on the other hand, might be able
to get their story out to the outside world, explaining their
innocence---or they might have to worry about their guilt in the eye of
the public, deciding whether it's okay to do whatever it takes to escape
while the cameras are rolling.### Twists, Compels, and NPCs

When you introduce your twist, introduce the new NPCs or new scene
aspects you need to make it real. If any of the twists can work as a
compel on one of the PCs' aspects or on an existing scene aspect---a
great sign of a good twist---the PCs still get their [[fate point]]s as
normal for compels. If a PC refuses a compel based on a twist, don't
charge them a [[fate point]]; choose a different twist instead.## Shake-ups

A **shake-up** is a major change to the circumstances of the conflict,
like a twist but amplified. A shake-up always ends the prior conflict
entirely, but often leads directly into another conflict.

At the same time, shake-ups generally don't end a scene or allow PCs or
NPCs to clear their stress. When a shake-up leads directly into a new
conflict with its own conflict countdown, the consequences and stress
from the prior conflict don't go away.

When you introduce a shake-up, build on the circumstances already
established to substantially change the environment, the stakes, or the
parties in the conflict. Don't introduce a completely random new element
from nowhere just to make a shake-up happen; there's a fine line between
interesting and random.

**Bad shake-up:** The conflict countdown hits a shake-up, and the GM
says, "The escapees manage to get outside to the courtyard, where they
meet a more heavily armed group of guards standing between them and the
exit." Not only does this not substantially change the situation, the
exact same skills would be useful---the guards will try to pound on the
escapees using [[Fight]] or [[Shoot]], and the escapees will probably respond in
kind.

**Good shake-up:** In the same situation, the GM says, "The escapees
lose the guards in the open areas of the prison and jump into the vents,
but the guards saw them go." What used to be a running fight, full of
punching and tackling, is now a cat and mouse game between the prisoners
trying to find their way out of the labyrinthine vents and the guards
hunting them down. It may not be a normal conflict anymore, but that's
just fine.

You can ask yourself if a shake-up has truly occurred by asking if the
same skills are still applicable. If no side in a conflict has to change
their tactics in a meaningful way, then there hasn't been a shake-up! In
the above example, any side that was planning on using [[Fight]] to resolve
the conflict is now going to have to rely on [[Athletics]] and [[Stealth]].

## To Countdown or Not To Countdown?

The conflict countdown is all about making conflicts as punchy, flashy,
interesting, and exciting as possible. If the countdown becomes just
another thing you have to track in a conflict because you're already
invested in the action, then drop it. It's not necessary in situations
where everybody's leaning forward in rapt attention because this is the
final fight between the lost prince and his evil father. This is for
those other fights, when you're up against the evil father's imperial
guardsmen. The conflict countdown will make those fights more exciting
and surprising, while also ensuring that they don't overstay their
welcome.

I hope you enjoy using the conflict countdown to add some zest to your
conflicts!

