---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
---

Fate Codex

# Fate is a Safe Place: [[Fate Core]] as a Tool for Inclusive Gamers

_by Shoshana Kessock_

A group of people sit down for a session of [[Fate Core]]. They bring with
them their Fate dice, their pens, their stack of blank note cards. They
also bring their unique life experiences and perspectives to the table.
Together, they'll craft a story in a space wholly their own. The
question then becomes: _whose stories get to be told?_

Issues of representation, meaning the inclusion and treatment of people
of different genders, sexualities, races, religions, cultures, the
differently abled and more, can both explicitly and implicitly influence
the way a game will go even before any Fate dice hit the table. The
choices the players make at a game table when considering the issue of
inclusivity will impact all aspects of play, from world-building and
character creation to the adventures they'll have during their sessions.
Today, more people are conscious of the fact that it is imperative to
make game spaces open and welcoming to all kinds of players. Everything
from game artwork in a book to the roles that individuals fulfill in the
game are in question to see if the game provides a safe space for
players of all identities to feel included and welcome. Thankfully, Fate
as a system automatically makes it possible to create safe spaces for
all players and creates a low-risk environment for players to have fun,
inclusive play. And much as it can sometimes make us nervous as a topic
of conversation, inclusivity is vital to making games approachable,
welcoming, and fun.

## Inclusivity and Why It Makes Us Nervous

The word inclusivity is often used as shorthand for the overall topic of
discussion that's exploring how spaces can become more welcoming to
diverse groups of people, with their unique experiences and stories.
When we talk about inclusivity, or say that a space is inclusive, we are
talking about making sure a place is open to people from all walks of
life and all identities, without pressure, or prejudice, or aggression.
Anyone is welcome and the things that make up an individual's identity,
that is to say for example race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, cultural
background, economic class, religion, appearance or health status, are
not discriminated against, stereotyped, or used to alienate someone. To
be inclusive is to let people be who they are in a welcoming
environment.

On the surface, this sounds like a no-brainer. Folks get together to
game to have a good time, and that's possible because people feel
welcomed and accepted by peers. The issue becomes when those game spaces
don't offer the opportunity for people of all kinds to tell stories
about all kinds of people. When people come to the game table with their
preconceived notions and prejudices, sometimes those ideas can get mixed
into the game space and end up making someone feel unwelcome. When those
potential preconceptions lead to a group in game, say women or queer
characters for example, being portrayed in a negative or marginalized
way, a player at the gaming table can find that portrayal uncomfortable,
offensive, or even harmful. That same player then has the difficult task
of deciding whether to allow their discomfort to go on in silence, or
speak up and risk a confrontation with their fellow players. That kind
of tension does not make for a fun, relaxed gaming environment and
creates what can be called an unsafe space.

What makes a space unsafe? Let's run through some examples that can
create unwelcoming, exclusive spaces:

- A group is made up of both men and women, yet in game all the women
  are assumed to play support characters, side-kicks, or love
  interests for male characters.
- A group represents people of color in their game based on
  media-perpetuated negative stereotypes rather than as people.
- A group develops a game setting that automatically treats LGBT
  (lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender) characters as lesser than
  straight, cis-gendered characters.

Each of these is a way that discrimination gets used in a game setting
and can make players feel uncomfortable and unwelcome. One perpetuates
stereotypes that directly impact what a player can do in a game based on
who they are or who their characters are, while the second is using
stereotypes that can be harmful in a game, and the third takes real
world issues of discrimination and makes them part of the game world
with which the players will have to interact. Unless you intend on
including those topics in your game for the sake of addressing these
issues, these behaviors can make a space feel unwelcoming,
uncomfortable, and unsafe.

Today, more people are conscious of inclusivity in games than ever
before. Conversations about this topic are being discussed at
conventions, on blogs, and across social media, as well as at individual
gaming tables. Along with the important question of _how do we make
spaces more inclusive?_ is another question: _why should we have to
worry about this?_ After all, games are spaces where people come
together to create fictional worlds, enjoy adventures, and have a good
time. Bringing up issues of politics, gender equality, or sexuality and
religion can force players to tackle difficult subject matter directly
and asks everyone involved to take a good look their own notions and
beliefs. Some argue that their tables are already diverse enough for
their own players, and they've never had to talk about inclusivity as a
Big Serious Topic, so why start now?

The answer lies in the assumptions people bring to the table about
inclusivity conversations.

First, let's dispel an idea right off the bat: _talking about
inclusivity doesn't have to turn into a great political debate at your
gaming table_. Making sure that a space feels welcoming to everyone can
be as simple as stating that you won't have discrimination towards any
kind of person, in or out of character. It can go one step further, by
stating clearly what you mean ('there will be no misogynistic treatment
of women characters in this game') and negotiating people's comfort
levels about certain topics. But as long as the baseline of being
welcoming to all identities and people is established, it doesn't need
to turn into a real world debate. Remember, this is about making people
feel comfortable at the table and the intent of conversations about
inclusivity is to create a dialogue.

There is also a concern that these kinds of conversations can put
players on the spot about their own beliefs out of character and lead to
some uncomfortable finger-pointing. It takes trust in your fellow
players to be able to be creative, and people who feel judged about who
they are aren't going to feel welcome to co-create. Therefore it takes
an atmosphere of honest communication to reach an understanding. It's
important to keep in mind that most players, unless they've proven
otherwise by their actions and behavior, don't set out to make their
fellow players feel unwelcome. After all, everyone has come together to
share in a game, and that's meant for fun and enjoyment. But when
players come to the table, addressing differences in beliefs and how
they affect play can sometimes be uncomfortable. Having a space to
address those conflicts will make for an overall better game and
perpetuate more diverse stories being told.

Thankfully, in designing both Fate settings and individual Fate game
sessions, the players are provided with tools to create from the ground
up with their own needs in mind. Fate provides a blank slate, an open
framework that does not prescribe any sort of norms of its own. It is a
system that allows the players to decide the baseline for their stories
and then empowers them to create adventures. In a Fate game, everyone at
the table has a voice and everyone has a place, and that is the basis of
the creation of a safe space.

## Creating Worlds and Deciding 'The Rules'

Perhaps the best part about Fate as a tool for creating safe
environments is the character and world creation rules that approach
games as blank slates. When the players sit down to create the world,
they might come to the table with a previously created setting in mind,
or else they generate fresh game ideas collaboratively. No matter the
source, the players always have the ability to pick and choose the rules
of their universe. They might use the shorthand of worlds they know
(example: "_I want this to be like Star Wars meets Leverage_") but since
they are handed the final say regarding what goes in their universe,
they can transform that space in any way they please. "_I want to play
in a Buffy universe_" could be the starting point, but a player might
suggest they want to see male vampire slayers so they can change up some
of the gender dynamics in the game.

With everything in a Fate game negotiable, players can also explore the
ideas of what is _normative_ (or considered accepted as part of the
world view of dominant society) and what is _transgressive_ (what is
considered outside the norm). Games with settings provided with their
system already come with the design choices made about whether their
games are going to include more normative or transgressive material. One
example of that would be a game in which multiple fantasy races were
included for play. Prejudices and stereotypes from our modern world can
filter down into the design of and the treatment of these made-up racial
groups. Later, the players must then interact with those preconceived
ideas and have to build their characters and stories into those narrowed
decision spaces. If games are less held back by encoded limitations in
design, then the stories told have the ability to challenge what beliefs
people brought to the table when they sat down. In a game like Fate, the
wide open creation space strips away the encoded limitations and
provides the opportunity for players to start fresh, without
expectations or preconceived prejudices.

That invitation to make each play session unique and custom to the
players is a design idea that speaks to the very heart of inclusivity.
In the end, _the game is inherently about player decisions_. Even those
Fate settings already written can be seen as adjustable guidelines for
the players' own campaigns, with plenty of room for reinterpretations
based on the wants around the table. Fate games therefore create places
where players can build great stories together around their particular
needs and wants, especially in terms of inclusivity.

To understand what the players around the table need to create an
inclusive safe space requires a little communication. A great tool to
approach having those conversations about what is and is not okay around
the table is actually built right into the Fate system. Leonard Balsera
covers some more great tips in his article from Issue 1 of The Fate
Codex, entitled [Game Creation Tips: Managing The
Conversation](../game-creation-tips-managing-conversation/index.html).
But there are two helpful questions mentioned in that article that are
very important in terms of starting conversations about inclusivity
during game set up. They are:

- What do you want to see in the game?
- What would you rather not see in the game?

These questions can open up a dialogue between players and set the
foundation for understanding just what each player might consider
important in terms of representation. These conversations don't need to
be long, but a player's baseline ideas can be understood by their
answers. Going one step further, the GM can use those answers to draw
the boundaries of what is okay and not okay at the game, and then ask
further questions during world-building to brainstorm new ideas for
being inclusive.

A GM can use this communication tool to also help expand elements of the
game world to further diverse representation in terms of setting
elements, factions within the game, or the way specific groups are
treated in the fictional world. For example:

- While players are creating the setting, a GM can take a look at the
  way different races are represented in the game. The GM can make
  suggestions about being more diverse in their racial representation
  if it's lacking. They can also examine how racial groups may be
  stereotyped and provide suggestions about how those stereotypes can
  be handled differently.
- Players will create organizations and groups within their new game
  world. The GM can ask questions to find out more about the ideas,
  ethics, and politics these groups represent. If those ideas are very
  normative, a GM can suggest alternatives to change things up for
  these groups and make them more diverse.
- The same can be said when creating major NPCs in the game. When
  players begin creating leadership NPCs in the game, especially those
  in positions of power, the GM can suggest ways to make those leaders
  more diverse in terms of gender, sexuality, race, and ethnicity.

GMs should feel free to challenge stereotypical representations of
characters or characters thrown in to represent groups without being
fleshed out. Suggest ways in which characters that have become
stereotypes can be fleshed out to become fully realized characters
outside of their representation of a specific group.

Players may bring preconceptions about physical capabilities, standards
of beauty, health, and illness to the game. A GM may present alternative
ideas about how to treat characters with health conditions, redefine
body image norms, or defy stereotypes of physical or mental illness.

Since one of the GM's jobs during creation is helping players expand on
world-building, these conversations aren't outside of the normal scope
of game setup. They do, however, allow GMs to challenge stereotypes and
out-of-game societal norms to suggest ways characters and the world can
be fleshed out in ways that expand the fictional space to allow for
diversity.

By facilitating discussion, the GM can help create an inclusive space
where everyone feels equally invested in what's going on at the table
through collaborative creation.

## Character Creation as an Exercise in Inclusivity

Once the fictional world has been created around the table, the players
will once again explore these issues of inclusivity in character
creation. The Fate character creation system, being so customizable,
automatically creates space for players to build characters however they
like. This creates the opportunity for players to make characters that
push norms and let them play outside their comfort zones. It also
provides a place to write rich, complex characters within a
collaborative character creation space that lets players discuss
potential issues of stereotyping and uncomfortable representation.

Stereotypes and familiar archetypes are used when creating characters
because they provide instantly understood points of reference for
everyone around the table. When those traits create a negative portrayal
of a particular minority group through a player's portrayal, it can
impact not only the in game events but the comfort of the other players
out of character. During character creation, there's a few questions
players can consider and even talk about with one another to help flesh
out characters beyond common stereotypical tropes.

- A character's aspects can reflect beliefs and ideas about that
  character's identity. What do the character's aspects say about
  their relationship with their racial group, their ethnicity,
  sexuality, culture, and so on? What is their relationship with the
  way their society thinks about their identity? Also consider whether
  those aspects reflect stereotypes about the character's identity.
  While stereotypes are easy to fall back on, they can leave your
  character flat and give you fewer opportunities for interesting
  compels of those aspects. If a character is, for example, a [Loving
  Soccer Mom], that's fun. But [Mad Scientist Soccer
  Mom] makes a more interesting high concept and gives the
  player and GM more nuance to work with.
- When creating your aspects, is the language you're using in terms of
  gender, sexuality, etc. particularly harsh, negative, or derogatory?
  Avoid using language in a character's aspects that puts another
  group in a lesser or negative light. Consider how those aspects,
  once compelled aloud, might make another player feel if they share
  an identity group with that character. For example, an aspect of
  [Always There to Protect the Ladies] indicates that, in
  that characters eyes, ladies are always in need of protection. Using
  more neutral language will help diffuse discomfort regarding how
  that aspect makes other players feel, unless that negative portrayal
  is purposeful and written in as an issue the character, and the
  players, want to tackle head on.
- When looking at the character's stunts, what do they say about the
  character's identity? Is the character only good at abilities that
  their identity group is stereotypically known for? Discuss with the
  GM what stunts the character might be "expected" to have if they
  were being stereotyped, and then find ways to defy those
  expectations.
- If the character being created has discriminatory behavior built
  into them, are the players prepared to deal with that subject matter
  at the table? Players might feel uncomfortable with bigotry, racism,
  homophobia, transphobia, religious intolerance, sexism, body
  shaming, or ableism being portrayed in a fellow player's character
  and could find it disruptive to play if it were to come up without
  warning. Discuss with fellow players what their limits are and offer
  up the option of players calling a halt if they feel the character
  has gone over the line. Remember: the alibi of "this is what my
  character would do" does not negate bad feelings or offense created
  at the table. Better to discuss in advance to alleviate potential
  problems with portrayals while in play.

Using the collaborative style of creation built into Fate, matched with
a little extra communication about inclusive play, will provide players
the control over their game material and help make a gaming group into a
safer space for all.

## Trust Is at the Heart of Creation

Fate games are engines for creating amazing worlds, and creating them
collaboratively around the table. That kind of freedom to create
requires a level of trust that others will accept your ideas and comfort
that a player's beliefs and identity will be respected and accepted
around the table. That commitment, mirrored in the character and world
creation phases of the game, will build the foundation of a trusting
play group that can have great adventures together. With that in mind,
here's some simple tips to keep in mind to make sure that the steps
towards inclusivity taken during creation continue during gameplay.

- **Fate Is About Empowering Players While Having Fun:** If the world
  created during game set up is not enjoyable to the players due to an
  issue of representation, then adjust it during play. Make sure the
  players at a session have all bought into whatever gets created at
  the table and provide the chance for players to feel comfortable
  voicing play.
- **Take Nothing for Granted:** The paper is blank until the players
  make choices to create their world. Nothing is taken for granted,
  and nothing 'just is that way.' That goes also for during play, as
  actions unfold.
- **Encourage Self-Expression and Freedom in Creation:** Each person
  brings their own identity and experiences to the table. Encourage
  players to feel comfortable bringing their own unique take on
  characters into the game. Create the space for the players to feel
  comfortable not restricting themselves based on real-world power
  dynamics or societal norms.
- **Reward Supportive Play:** Consider rewarding collaboration by
  players to create inclusion in plot lines, world-building, and
  character ties during play. Rewarding those that promote positive
  atmospheres will do more to encourage safe space than being negative
  towards those that do not. [[Fate Point]]s are a great way to indicate
  positive choices made by players and can be used to encourage
  players stepping into uncomfortable territory away from their course
  of action.
- **Encourage Open Dialogue Before, After, and During Game:** Since
  this is a collaborative storytelling experience, keeping up
  communication before, during, and after play is key to making sure
  everyone is feeling comfortable, safe, and included. Encourage
  players to speak up if they have an issue without requiring
  explanations or justifications.

By encouraging positive representation and inclusive ideas during play,
you will create a safe environment at the table for all involved.
Understanding the needs and wants of the players creates ongoing trust
that allows players to not only relax and have fun, but also gives them
the space to explore difficult topics---if that's what they want.

Regardless of the content however, these exercises in inclusivity
through communication allow for game spaces to be more welcoming by
establishing that everyone can tell their stories and express their
identities equally. The safer and more respected the players at the
table feel, the more comfortable they will feel creating amazing stories
together.

