---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
---

Fate Codex

# Game Creation Tips: Managing the Conversation

by Leonard Balsera

[[Fate Core]] describes a process of collaborative game creation, where
everyone participating in the game sits down and, from the vast reaches
of empty nothingness, produces an awesome world with dramatic tension to
play in.

The hard truth is, doing this isn't always easy. The game creation
chapter is a set of tools for you to use, but it's not a magic spell.
The hard part---the work of joining creative minds in a collaborative
atmosphere---still falls to you and your group.

Here's some advice on how to manage it.

## Bringing Your Best You

For as much as we claim to value the experience, it's kind of amazing
how little we (myself included) pay attention to what state we're in
when we show up to game. We're all busy, burdened by the thousand tiny
(and not so tiny) stresses of work and life. We all throw ourselves into
various forms of recreation, and we all need to recharge.

Yes, gaming is fun and a great way to blow off steam. Game _creation_ is
a little different, though---it requires an effort similar to team
sports and it expends energy, albeit mental rather than physical.
Active, spontaneous imagining is taxing, and it pays dividends to make
sure that, if you're going to do it, you're in the best shape you can
be.

Obviously, you can't control when stressors are going to show up and
then magically plan your game around them. But you _can_ control some
things. Have you rested before the game? Have you eaten? Where's your
energy level? What kind of mood are you in?

It sounds silly, but checking in with yourself before you get to the
game can make a huge difference for game creation. The other players are
relying on your input as much as you're relying on theirs. If you feel
like the session is something you have to endure or "tough out," all
your energy will go to maintaining instead of participating, or worse,
your resentment will bleed into what you create.

Don't be afraid to be _really_ honest with yourself about how much
you're able to engage with the group, and do what you need to do to get
into a good headspace. Take a nap. Get some grub. Blow off steam before
you start with a rant session and a couple of beers. Play a board game
or watch a movie. Be kind to yourself. It'll pay off.

And if you're really, really not feeling it, don't be afraid to
reschedule.

## The Collaborative Frame of Mind

> If there's one dirty secret to Fate game creation, it's this: _to do
> it, you have to want to do it_.

Every time I've talked to people in depth about game creation gone
wrong, as well as every time it's gone belly up on me, there's always
someone in the group I can point to who didn't _really_ want to
collaborate. I don't mean that there was an obvious troll out to
undermine other players or do anything malicious, but there was someone
who, push come to shove, wasn't open to the ideas of others. They were
set in what they wanted to see or not see.

If you come to the table like that, your session will stall. The tools
in [[Fate Core]] will help you if you use them in good faith, but they can't
stand as a substitute for that good faith. This doesn't mean that not
wanting to collaborate is _bad_, per se. It just is what it is. If
you're having this problem and you're open and upfront about it, you can
reach a middle ground, which I'll get into later.

Here are some of my favorite ways to stay on the collaborative track.

### Confirm and Build (or "Yes, and...")

This is an old chestnut from improv theater.

Don't deny, undermine, or reject anyone's suggestions about anything,
regardless of your initial, visceral reaction. (There are exceptions! If
you're really going to ruin someone's fun, like with triggering or
controversial content, or the group vetoes it as a whole, don't go
there.)

Instead, look at the things your friends say as _opportunities_, and
_help them out_ by offering more detail or greater justification for
what they suggest.

So, if you're making a fantasy setting, and someone is like, "...and
there should be robots," you might be tempted to say no.

Instead, take a breath. Think about how you might make that cool. Maybe
they're magical constructs. Say that. Someone asks if they're common.
Say they're not common. Someone adds that there's an elite cabal of
wizard-craftsmen who make these things. Someone else says that it's an
ultra rare thing to have even one in your army. Then say, "So what if
there was one feared military power that had _five_ of them?"

Now you're going in a direction that's way cooler than if you stopped
and said, "How do you have robots in medieval fantasy? Forget that."

### Be Simple; Be Obvious

Here's another one from improv training. It's almost axiomatic that the
harder you try to be anything on the fly---whether it's dramatic, or
funny, or thrilling---the worse you're going to do. You're already a
fertile ground of imaginative and interesting ideas, but you don't think
of them as imaginative and interesting because they're _yours_. Maybe
your ideas are rough around the edges, but you have excellent
pattern-matching machines to help you refine them, aka the minds of your
fellow players.

Though it may seem paradoxical, don't work too hard to come up with an
idea that's going to be impressive or interesting. Don't try to be
fascinating. Say the first thing that comes to mind. Let the other
people at the table be the judge, and give them the freedom to build on
what you've got. You never know what they'll consider brilliant.

Hearts of Steel, from the [[Fate Core]] book, is a good example of this. The
initial pitch grew from a phrase I read on Rob Donoghue's blog: "Two
Guys With Swords." So I brought that to the table, in all its fantasy
clichÃ© goodness. The response I got back immediately was: "Why two?" and
someone said, "Maybe it's an odd man out thing...two guys with swords,
and one weirdo." Then, "Guy _without_ sword!" And we had a laugh, and
thus Zird the Arcane was born.

### Abandon Your Preconceptions

The game you make in [[Fate Core]] will not be the game(s) you have in your
mind when you show up. It will not resemble that game at all, or
anything you'd have thought of on your own.

Not only is that okay, it's kind of the point. You have to leave your
preconceptions at the door.

Holding onto an idea too tight will impair your ability to collaborate.
Of course, you should advocate for what interests you. Whatever you're
fired up about should be the first stuff out of your mouth. But what you
suggest to the group is just that---a suggestion, and no more. The other
players will add to and develop those suggestions, and you should let
them, because they're showing you what fires _them_ up, what'll make
them eager to game with you.

If we'd held onto preconceptions, we would never had developed "a supers
setting" into "super kung fu" into "a super kung fu monkey" into "a
super cyber-enhanced kung fu monkey" into "a whole sect of super
cyber-enhanced kung fu monkeys" into "a whole sect of super
cyber-enhanced kung fu monkeys who have meditative chats over wine,"
which is perhaps the best illustration in the [[Fate Core]] book. You are
welcome.

### Leave Blanks On Purpose

> If you're at a roadblock on some element of your game's premise,
> simply leave it blank.

It's easy to fall into the trap of wanting make your world perfectly
consistent and rival the worlds your favorite authors have made.

You don't need to do that. Many of the coolest twists and developments
in the settings you love (especially in television) happened because the
author left blanks on purpose and then figured out what they meant
later, drawing on the strength of creative pattern-matching to make it
seem like they'd planned everything in advance.

You can do this too. If you're at a roadblock on some element of your
game's premise, simply leave it blank---decide that whatever question
you're trying to answer is one of the things you're going to deal with
in play. Allow it to take on the power of mystery.

In [[Fate Core]]'s Extras chapter, we tease a setting called Ancestral
Affairs, where the PCs draw power from ancestral spirits and use them to
(what else?) fight crime. If you're building that setting and you ask,
"What is the precise nature of the guardian spirits?," you might wander
through hours of tangent as people explore different answers to that
question.

If you leave it blank on purpose, then "uncovering the nature of the
guardian spirits" could become what the campaign's about, or something
you use to reflect character diversity by having different people
believe different things about them.

## Formal Techniques

The biggest obstacle to making a [[Fate Core]] game is decision paralysis.
Even with the constraints we give in the book (drama, competence,
proactivity), there's an infinity of games you could make. You want to
narrow that down.

### "Want" and "Do Not Want" Lists

You remember where I said above that if you have an idea and you don't
want to collaborate on it, you should just be honest about it upfront?

Here's why: your "must haves" and "must avoids" make an excellent
starting point for talking about what game you're going to make.

Before you start out, grab an index card and make two columns on it (or
use two index cards, as long as you can see the results side by side).
One column is for things you really want to see, and the other for
things you really _do not_ want to see.

Everyone should write down one of each. It can be just about any trope
you recognize from media---a genre, a character type, a setting element,
or a plot device---as long as you can state it concisely and clearly (if
you can't, converse about it instead until you can).

![](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v1issue1/index-card.png)

Once you have that list, look at it as a whole, and think about what
game ideas could incorporate as many of those wants as possible. Some
ideas are probably going to jump into your head immediately when you see
the "want" list elements together. Voice them! Start the conversation!
And don't worry if you don't get them all right off the bat---you can
always use them as goalposts for later in the campaign.

If one person has a "want" that's similar to or exactly what someone
else has as a "do not want," put an asterisk or other mark by it before
passing on the card. That's a signal to invite the other person to talk
about their objection and see if there's a way to modify your "want"
into something they'll be okay with.

You might discover that you run into a strong "want" or a fun-spoiling
"do not want" in the middle of conversation, also. That's okay! Add them
to the list and use that to refine your constraints.

### Break Down Common Media

You and your friends probably have at least some shared experiences
watching the same television shows or movies, or reading the same books.

If you can settle on a broad genre, try picking a few examples you all
have in common, then break down their elements and tropes. Do this like
the "want" and "do not want" lists above, but pick things specific to
those media properties. If you only use one property, then that list
should be enough; if you do two or three, you'll want to narrow it down
further into a single list that grabs "do" and "do not" elements from
all of them.

Then, see if those elements give you any ideas, as above. Don't try to
make a copycat of the properties you just analyzed, but think about how
_else_ those same ideas might apply.

(A more detailed treatment of this process is part of Jason Pitre's
Spark RPG, and I'll admit that I'm a little jealous he found a way to
implement it before I did.)

Another way to do this is to name a clichÃ© or trope that everyone
understands and is familiar with from other fiction, and then give it
_one_ unusual twist, whatever comes to mind. You'd be surprised at how
just that one bit of added complexity can stir interest and ideas. (If
you need proof of this, you need not look any further than the BBC's
Sherlock, which milks "Sherlock Holmes but in the modern day" for
everything it's worth.)

![](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v1issue1/index-card-2.png)

### The TV Guide Summary

The techniques above are all about putting constraints on the front end
of the process, but it's also helpful to put constraints on the back end
of the process, giving you a goal to reach.

One such goal could be like the summaries you see in TV listings such as
TV Guide. They look like this:

"In (name of game), a group of (main character tie) do (main show
action), in a (genre) world where (major setting detail(s)). Rated
(rating)."

Being able to articulate what your game's about in these terms is a good
way of making sure that everyone's on the same page and on board with
the idea, so you can get to creating issues and drilling down from
there. The main character tie is whatever important commonality binds
the characters together, and the main show action is whatever general
thing the characters are doing week to week on a reliable basis. In Star
Trek, it's Starfleet officers exploring the planet of the week, and in
Fringe, it's scientists solving what seems to be a supernatural crime.
Of course, you'll deviate from the main action, but it should work as a
rough overview of your game.

For the example game in [[Fate Core]], Hearts of Steel, it might look
something like this:

"In Hearts of Steel, a trio of troubleshooters (more like troublemakers)
for hire do odd jobs for various fief lords and other moneyed interests,
in a fantasy world where petty kings squabble over the remnants of a
once-unified empire. Rated M."

## Solo Fun, Together

> You're doing it right if everyone's having fun.

As I said, if you're having trouble getting into the collaborative
mindset and you're more used to the GM presenting a strong idea that the
rest of the group goes along with, you can meet the [[Fate Core]] rules in
the middle. They're flexible; you won't break them.

GMs, if you have a game idea you really want to run, and no one minds,
come to the table with your current and impending setting issues already
written down. Then, invite the players to develop that foundation
further, by discussing the idea, naming organizations or locations, and
coming up with issues for those together.

If you have one or two players really interested in a setting element,
go ahead and delegate them as the "boss" of that particular element,
leading the conversation about it. If no one else has input, just let
them make up whatever they want. Everyone doesn't always have to
participate in every part of the collaborative process, as long as
there's an overall sense of people checking in with and listening to
each other.

Character creation is also a foundation for worldbuilding, and it's okay
to flit back and forth between them. If you need to have a piece of the
game you "own," start character creation earlier on, and if you end up
naming any setting bits you're tied to, go back into chatting as a group
until you've fleshed that out, and then return to making your character.

## Don't Worry About Getting It Wrong

[[Fate Core]] uses collaboration as a tool to get you invested in each
other's ideas and inject some surprises along the way. It's simple, but
again, it's not necessarily _easy_. You're doing it right if everyone's
having fun. Hopefully, these tools and suggestions will help you get the
ball rolling and keep your sessions lively, as they have for me.

Happy creating!
