---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
---

Fate Codex

# Life Locked

_by Brie Sheldon_

The back of the van was quiet while Crunch was jacked into the 'net
outside the massive black office building. Her work was fluid but
frantic, like the rush of water through a broken levee. The passive
security measures sensed her intrusion and activated. Ice, cold and
prickling, crept around the edge of her vision in the VR. She dove
deeper, her eyes moving rapidly behind her eyelids while the rest of her
body twitched in response to the virtual stimulus.

The files were inside, behind that glowing green door. Those damn files!
Paperwork with backgrounds on her, Brink, and Jaaz and all of their
families. Ever since PeriCor got their hands on the data, the three
women had been haunted by that damned Corporation. They were locked out
of everything: bank accounts, stores, even the hospitals. Crunch punched
through the code of the door, shattering it. The ice surrounded her in
spikes as she carefully wove through a narrow opening.

"Yo, Crunch, how long is this about to take?" A voice echoed through
Crunch's earpiece.

Crunch's response blipped up on Jaaz's heads-up display.

[OMG SRSLY I’M ON IT. ICE LIKE ANTARCTICA UP IN HERE.[

Jaaz sighed loudly, and closed her eyes so she didn't see Crunch's storm
of swears. She was trying to be patient, seriously, but it was like, way
too long. She could see the security inside, and the last thing she
wanted was to draw their attention. She was lucky that PeriCor was full
of egotistical jerkoffs who didn't worry so much about their security,
though, because the guys inside were chumps. They had the uniforms, but
they weren't professionals. Jaaz might look a little out of place with
her dreadlocks, but at least she could take someone down. These guys
looked like they _might _be able to take down a twelve-year-old.
_Maybe_.

It couldn't be too much longer. Jaaz was there to keep Crunch on track,
since Crunch sometimes got a little distracted in the 'net. Jaaz held
her breath as Crunch's [OK OK[ came up on-screen, and then breathed in
relief when the door clicked.

Jaaz walked through the shiny metal door like she owned the place. There
was a set of turnstiles ahead of her, but she needed an ID badge to get
through. She bumped into a chick in a suit as she walked past and
snagged her badge. Now she was _in_, and it should be easy-peasy.

The badge worked on every door and elevator except for one---the door to
the server room. _Damn._

"Crunch, can you get this?"

[BRINK IS ON HER WAY. SHE’S GOT THIS ONE.[

Jaaz cringed. _I hope she doesn't hurt anyone before I get to her._ She
loved Brink, but Brink dealt with locked doors only one way.

The inside of the ventilation was cramped and tight, but Brink's body
was small and flexible, so it wasn't much trouble. The smell of
re-recycled air was overpowering. She inched, stretched, and pulled her
way through the metal corridors.

"Crunch, is it left or right here?"

[LEFT, TWO RIGHTS.[

Brink smiled and shimmied forward. Crunch was an ace hacker, but this
was the biggest job they'd ever done, so she couldn't even imagine how
hard Crunch's work was. On the other hand, Brink was a B.A. infiltrator,
so this job? Chill.

The ventilation corridor opened up onto an elevator shaft. She crouched
down and then propelled herself to hook onto the elevator line. She
caught it easily and let herself spin. She let go, and dropped fast, air
swooshing around her ears and blowing her hair into her face. _Whee!_

[STOP HAVING SO MUCH FUN, BRINK[

"Hey, it's my life on the line here. Get it, on the line?"

Her hydraulic rig slowed her to a stop, bringing her next to the
ventilation system. She swung over and climbed in, snaking through until
she was over the server room. She looked down through the vent. The
metal vent had wide slots that were easy to look through, and it
wouldn't take much to open it. Light peeked through the slots, almost
blinding after being in the dark corridors of the ventilation. When her
vision refocused, she saw a figure bent over a computer.

One woman inside. She could handle this. She had to. Her family depended
on it. So much depended on it.

Brink quietly opened the vent, and dropped down without a sound. She
crept up behind the woman sitting at the computer and quickly snaked her
arm around the woman's neck. The woman didn't respond at first, which is
when Brink realized that the woman was jacked in. Brink eased the
pressure for a moment and the woman's hands reflexively grabbed onto
Brink's arm. They struggled, the woman pulling on Brink's arm and
Brink's arm tightening until the woman stopped resisting and slumped
over the computer. Brink took her ID badge and went to open the door.

Brink swiped the badge, practically bouncing on the balls of her feet.
The door opened with a quiet _hiss_. Jaaz rolled her eyes and pushed
through.

"Where's the..." Jaaz caught sight of the woman's body and immediately
turned around on Brink. "I thought we said no casualties."

"Nothin' casual about it. She's just sleeping anyway."

[SRSLY GUYS DID YOU KILL SOMEONE?[

Jaaz checked the woman's pulse. The woman was still alive.

"She's not dead."

Jaaz carefully pushed the woman's body to the side. She opened the
compartment on her new metal arm and pulled out a wireless key. The new
arm was handy---a replacement for the one lost in a serious car accident
a few months earlier. This new one was stronger, more useful than her
meat arm. She plugged the key into the computer and wiped her
fingerprints before she turned to leave.

"All yours!"

[WHAT UP, [[PERICOR[[, I AM IN YOU[

Crunch could see the code behind every lock and key PeriCor had. More
than anything, she could see the data she was looking for---a shining
beacon her search function had located. Unfortunately, it rested behind
two big gates and two very, very angry dogs, lit up with the
programming. Numbers ran over their hides like rain.

It was time for a show.

Crunch tried, first, to sneak past. She squatted down onto the ground
and then belly crawled halfway to the first gate. It was easy. When she
got to the gate, she reached out and touched the lock with her
fingertip. It burst like a supernova, light emanating from its center
and spreading outward into sparkling symbols.

[ONE DOWN <The floor is lava.> NO SRSLY, THE FLOOR IS LAVA![

Crunch twitched in the real world, her body shuddering in response to
the pain she felt when she dropped into the virtual lava. In VR, she
transformed. Her skin hardened and scales grew over her arms and legs,
and she swam through the lava, a salamander with webbed fingers and
toes. It took a while, but she managed to reach the other side, slogging
through pain that threatened to break through her protection.

The next gate was harder. She poked at it, prodding the pieces of code,
turning them in the air and slipping them back into place. After a
minute, she had it figured out, and she punched the lock. Like the last
one, it burst.

Suddenly, it was cold. She must have touched something wrong, because
there it was: the ice. The dogs in front of her grew up in size,
blinking one, two, three times as they turned into giant monster dogs.
Spikes of ice grew into her vision, and real-her gasped in pain,
cringing.

It was time to bring out the big guns.

She transformed again. This time, bigger. Badder. Better. Her scales led
the way down her back to a long tail, and she spun around, a huge,
massive-toothed dragon.

The dogs growled and ran at her. She twisted and swept her tail at them,
nailing one in the side. The other grabbed her and tore at her code,
ripping out her wings. Real-her shouted in pain, but virtual-her shook
off the dog. She drew in a massive breath, pulling together all of her
strength. Her real nose began to bleed.

She let out the virtual breath in a massive, shining burst of numbers
and symbols, flames licking the ice and melting it from her vision and
shattering the dogs into wasted piles. She stumbled forward over them
and opened her giant mouth to swallow her prize: the file directory.

Crunch shook herself outside, slowly pulling herself out of the 'net. It
always left her fuzzy but hyped. Now that she had the files, she could
read them literally instead of having to fight down any more monsters.
She skimmed them, and inside the file directory, she found something
else. PeriCor had more hidden records. Bastards.

The files on her, Brink, and Jaaz were good ones, detailed, but they
didn't compare in the slightest to the files mixed in with them: death
records. From what Crunch could tell, PeriCor had released chemicals
into the local river... and killed thousands. What had been billed as an
outbreak of a vaccine-resistant flu was instead the result of Corp
negligence. _Fragging hell?_

If PeriCor was this soulless, they were way worse than just hunting down
runners, and worse than just working with the Tricks to find Brink's
family. If they were this bad, what else would they do?

Jaaz was running, Brink alongside her. Behind them, the sound of
footsteps slammed. Two security guards followed---slowly but surely.
Their heads-up showed the message from Crunch.

[FOUND SECRET FILES. [[PERICOR[[ EVIL. GTFO NOW![

They rounded a corner and Jaaz yanked Brink to the side, narrowly
avoiding the pair of suits walking straight towards them. The first suit
pulled a gun and Jaaz whipped her leg around, kicking the gun out of his
hand. She barreled at him, slamming him into the wall. Her strength was
greater than she expected, and she heard a loud crunch. The guy's
ribcage sunk in and he choked out a gurgling breath. She jumped back and
dropped him, her eyes wide.

Brink was too busy to notice. She had no trouble disarming the other
guy, but now she was surrounded by two security guards and this suit,
spinning around in circles, dodging and striking out. Three against one
is lousy odds. She was just about to get socked, but dodged at the last
second. Excited, she spun around, kicking out and clocking each of them.
It knocked one guy out, but the other two were still game. She shouted
at Jaaz.

"Oh em gee, Jaaz, get it together!"

Jaaz shook herself out of it, turned and immediately attacked the other
suit, leaving the last security guard to Brink. She held back her
strength, concentrating and taking care to _just hit hard enough_, and
succeeded---two hits and the guy was down and out, but not dead.

"I warmed him up for ya!" Brink shouted as she jumped and kicked the
security guard in the face, knocking him flat.

They paused for a second, observing the damage, but then sense caught up
with them and they ran.

"We need an exit!"

Crunch hammered into the keyboard, opening doors along their path and
shutting down security. All the while, her other screen showed files
with lists of names, people dead because of PeriCor. It made her feel
sick, but all the more determined.

She reached a roadblock in the code, and dropped the keyboard. She dove
into VR, her eyes rolling back and her body going limp. Standing in
front of her was an avatar of a knight, one of those old-timey guys in
metal armor. He had a sword and was waving it around like it meant
something. Words appeared above him.

[LITTLE GIRL, I WILL GET YOU[

Lightning fast, he moved towards her and struck her, again and again.
Her avatar cracked, and real-her convulsed. The smart thing to do would
be to pull out now. She could feel the pain welling in her brain, but
she could also feel the tell-tale ping-ping of the GPS locators in Jaaz
and Brink. If she went down, so did they. Worse, no one would ever know
about all of those people.

[FRAG THAT <fragment drive>[

She ducked low, avoiding the knight's swing, and shoved upwards,
catching him in the midsection. There was a low _buzz_ and _brrrt_, and
the knight began to fragment, piece by piece. His code spilled out of
his torso like guts. His text displayed.

[NO ONE DEFEATS Kn1GhT![

She took a deep breath, and blew him away as he screamed FUXXOR UZOR and
fell into a million pieces. Blood trickled out of her real ear. Where
the knight had been, there was a wall of code with the last door.
_Finally_.

She opened the last door for Jaaz and Brink and the two stormed out of
the building and piled into the van. Jaaz started the engine and they
tore off down the street.

They could see the black SUV behind them. It was only a matter of time
until it caught up. Brink dug into the dash and pulled out three
pistols. Jaaz glared at her and shook her head.

"No way!"

Brink nodded.

"Yes way."

Jaaz snatched one of the guns out of Brink's hand and shoved it into her
pants.

"I'm taking it, but I'm not using it."

"Fine!"

[WILL YOU GUYS SHUT UP?[

"Dude, we're right here!"

Crunch groaned and slumped forward between the seats.

"Yeah, I know, it's just easier."

She held a tablet in her hands and showed it to Brink, who read off some
of the text to Jaaz. The van whipped around a turn into a narrow alley
and skidded on two wheels. The SUV behind them drove past, unable to
turn quickly enough to catch them.

"That shit's horrible, Crunch." Jaaz was shaking, her knuckles white as
she held onto the wheel and navigated more twisting streets.

Crunch nodded, her face set with grim determination. This changed
everything. They saved themselves, but there were so many more people at
risk, so many who had been hurt by PeriCor. She shared a glance with
Brink and then with Jaaz, and knew they felt the same way.

"We've got work to do."## Crunch

Crunch is a skinny brunette with an eye for trouble. In spite of only
being in her late teens, she is the number one hacker in the city.
Impressive, considering hackers run by the dozen. She's from a
once-affluent family who seem oblivious to her illicit activities. Her
expertise lies in virtual reality (VR) hacking, where she easily
transforms and navigates through any security measure laid in front of
her. Her greatest achievement yet is hacking into the city's secure
automated trial system---a crime for which she has yet to be caught.

### Aspects

**High Concept:** [Curious Ace Hacker]
**Trouble:** [The 'Net is My Wonderland]
[I [[Fight]] in Many Forms] • [Sucker for a Cause] •
[What's Right is Right]

### Skills

Great (+4) Hack
Good (+3) [[Deceive]], [[Will]]
Fair (+2) [[Investigate]], [[Resources]], [[Stealth]]
Average (+1) [[Burglary]], [[Contacts]], [[Empathy]], [[Lore]]

### Stunts

**Hard Limits.** While in Virtual Reality, you can convert mental stress
to physical stress. Consequences you take as a result of this stunt
cannot be invoked or compelled by virtual opposition during the current
conflict.

**Break the Ice.** +2 to Hack when attempting to circumvent or break
locks in Virtual Reality.

**Codetalker.** Once per session, you can establish a virtual link with
a number of characters equal to your Hack. Regardless of distance or
virtual and physical barriers, you can communicate with these characters
via electronic code. The effects of this stunt last for one scene.

### Stress

Physical □□ Mental □□□□

### Notes

Refresh: 3

Crunch's skill list includes Hack, a new skill designed for use with the
Silicon City Quick Start Adventure. Head over to "New Skill: Hack"
later this issue to read more about how the Hack skill can be used in
play.

## Brink

Brink is an ex-Olympic gymnast on the run from the mob, the Tricks. When
Brink was up for the Olympics, the Tricks tried to bribe her to throw
the competition. She instead turned them in to the cops, and ever since
then, she and her family have been hiding out, trying to keep away.
Brink is an expert at sneaking in and out of everywhere, from clubs to
mansions to military complexes. Petite and flexible, she has no trouble
fitting into ventilation shafts and windows. She never hesitates to do
what is necessary to protect her family.

### Aspects

**High Concept:** [Bad Ass Gymnast]
**Trouble:** [Family is Everything]
[Expert at the Old In-]['n][-Out] • [No One
Keeps Secrets from Me] • [Always Help a Chum in Need]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Burglary]]
Good (+3) [[Athletics]], [[Stealth]]
Fair (+2) [[Investigate]], [[Notice]], [[Physique]]
Average (+1) [[Deceive]], [[Fight]], [[Provoke]], [[Shoot]]

### Stunts

**Grapple.** You can use [[Athletics]] instead of [[Fight]] to Attack when you
engage in close-quarters grappling with an opponent.

**Just Dropping In.** You always go first in conflicts, provided you
find a way to enter the scene without drawing attention to yourself.

**Hard to Hit.** +2 to Defend with [[Athletics]] when you're outnumbered.

### Stress

Physical □□□ Mental □□

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Jaaz

Jaaz is the moral center of every group she's been a part of. From her
family, some of whom threw out their respect for law a long time ago, to
her crew, who do bad things to make things right, she's always keeping
someone in check. She's big and muscular with dreadlocks and a metal
right arm, which she still has to pay off. She tries to get her money
honestly. So far, nothing has made her cross the line to kill---but Jaaz
knows that sometimes, you gotta do what you gotta do.

### Aspects

**High Concept:** [Cybernetic Bouncer]
**Trouble:** [Part-Time Pacifist]
[I Don't Trust Authority] • [Weakness for the Weak] •
[Still One of the Good Guys]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Fight]]
Good (+3) [[Athletics]], [[Physique]]
Fair (+2) [[Investigate]], [[Notice]], [[Shoot]]
Average (+1) [[Burglary]], [[Drive]], [[Stealth]], [[Will]]

### Stunts

**Don't Know My Own Strength.** Once per session, you can use your
[[Physique]] rating as a free invoke when you attack with [[Fight]]. If your
attack inflicts a consequence, take a point of Mental Stress.

**Big Woman, Big Heart.** Use [[Physique]] instead of [[Rapport]] on any create
advantage rolls that involve roughhousing, kid juggling, or other
physical acts of affection.

**Robotic Arm.** Once per session, you can pull a piece of advanced
electronic equipment you need from your robotic arm.

### Stress

Physical □□□□ Mental □□□

### Notes

Refresh: 3# 