---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
---

Fate Codex

# Plague of Pulps

by Don Bisdorf

Thousands of years ago, Babylonian sorcerers established contracts with
the immaterial beings that modern occultists refer to as the Watchers.
From that time forward, any magician who knew the particulars of the
contracts could call upon the services of the Watchers.

Generations of magicians have preserved the Babylonian Contracts,
guarding them from anyone who lacked the understanding necessary to
employ the contracts safely. The magicians who owned these documents
always copied them in their original Sumerian language, so that no
outsider could decipher them.

## Deciphering the Secrets

In 1896, a Philippine secret society known as the Katipunan was planning
a revolution to win their country's independence from Spain. Among their
allies was Severino Reyes, a scholar with access to the Spanish
government's collection of occult manuscripts. Reyes stole a copy of the
Babylonian Contracts and fled to the Philippines, where he prepared a
series of short translations that would allow any reader to evoke the
power of the Watchers.

Reyes wrote twenty-one different sorcerous manuals in Tagalog, the
language favored by the Katipunan. Each manual was less than twenty
pages long and contained the incantations and responses necessary to
compel the Watchers to action. The Katipunan distributed several sets of
these manuals to various generals and agents before Spanish police
discovered the operation and arrested those involved.

In practice, the manuals proved not to be as safe or reliable as Reyes
hoped, and it's unclear whether they affected the course of the
revolution beyond producing a few unanswered mysteries and gruesome
footnotes. But this was not the end of Reyes's legacy.

## Ten-Cent Grimoires

Reyes's manuals continued to multiply after the conflict ended.
Handwritten and typewritten copies drifted around the globe, translated
into language after language, passing into the hands of anarchists,
disappearing into the libraries of collectors, or hiding in the pockets
of criminals.

By 1910, the term "Manila Manual" had come to stand for any of these
copies of Reyes's work. Many of these documents are nonsense-filled
counterfeits, while others are incomplete or inaccurate. Only one out of
a hundred will be a true Reyes translation, and the original Katipunan
manuals are even rarer. Complete and functional translations of Reyes's
manuals carry as much power and danger as the originals.

A true copy of an original Manila Manual will be in Tagalog. Readers
unfamiliar with Tagalog may find this to be an obstacle, but the
original Tagalog manuals are the most accurate means of contacting the
Watchers other than the actual Babylonian Contracts.

A proper Manila Manual contains a collection of incantations, written
phonetically to reproduce the original Sumerian phrases of the
Babylonian Contracts. If the reader correctly pronounces the
incantations, the Watchers will scratch their responses on the fabric of
reality, producing glowing white symbols that hang briefly in the air.
These may be counter-offers or requests for clarification, and the
manual will give the reader the necessary incantations to use in reply.

## The Manila Manuals

Few people know for certain what all of the manuals were intended to
achieve, but some of the rumored powers of the manuals include:

- Traveling great distances with a single step by leaving the rational
  confines of our universe.
- Curing any wound or illness, at the cost of seeing the condition
  return at some unpredictable time in the future.
- Summoning a chaotic storm capable of destroying any fortification.

Using a manual requires no magical training, though a strong education
may help the reader to comprehend important nuances of the text. A
character who wishes to employ a manual must use the [[Lore]] skill twice:
once to examine the manual and identify any flaws, and once to recite
the incantations according to the manual's instructions.

### Examination

A careful magician who finds a Manila Manual should determine its
authenticity and accuracy before using it. Even if a manual is genuine,
the notes that accompany the incantations may not correctly represent
the effects the magician should expect.

The character must study the document for several hours, and then
overcome using [[Lore]] against Great (+4) opposition. The GM may reduce the
opposition if the document is a clumsy forgery, but should not reveal
the opposition level to the player.

- On a failure, the character believes that the document is genuine
  and will produce exactly the results the document claims.
- On a tie, the character knows whether the document is genuine or a
  useless forgery. If the incantations are genuine but will have a
  different effect than the document claims, the character will not
  detect this until performing the incantation.
- On a success, the character knows if the document is genuine, and if
  so, the character also knows exactly what effect the incantations
  will produce.
- Success with style grants the same benefit as a success, and grants
  a boost the character can use when performing the incantations.

### Incantation

The reader uses [[Lore]] a second time to recite the manual's incantations.
Opposition for this task may be as low as Fair (+2) if the document is a
competent translation. If the document is poorly organized or littered
with errors, increase the opposition.

- On a failure, the PC may choose to either achieve the desired result
  at a major cost, or may choose to fail with catastrophic results.
  Failure may be preferable if the cost of success is too terrible to
  contemplate. The GM should explain the consequences of both options
  before the PC chooses.
- On a tie, the PC may choose to achieve success at a minor cost, or
  produce a slightly inaccurate version of the desired results. For an
  inaccurate result, the effect might be weaker than desired, or might
  affect unintended targets, or might include unwanted side effects.
  The GM should explain the potential cost and inaccurate result
  before the PC chooses.
- Success achieves the document's intended result, which may not be
  what the reader was expecting, based on the result of prior
  examination.
- Success with style allows the PC to adjust the results slightly. The
  PC might make the effect more potent, or might narrow its scope to
  prevent collateral damage, or might introduce a delay before the
  magic takes effect to give allies time to get clear.

## Front: It Came from the Newsstand

It's the year 1913 in Chicago, and Alfonso Petrelli's newsstand is the
place to go for information on the latest current events, or just some
cheap entertainment to brighten your evening. Though Petrelli is a
short-tempered and suspicious proprietor, his stand is always well
stocked with the latest newspapers and dime novels.

He has a few reliable suppliers, and turns away any hopeful peddlers who
aren't already in his good graces. But when a salesman with an odd
accent and an armful of magazines approaches him, Petrelli finds that he
has bought a dozen in spite of himself. The magazines are strange
looking, but Petrelli has paid good money for them, and he intends to
earn a profit on them. He places twelve copies of The Words of Doom on
his shelves, not suspecting the havoc they will unleash in Chicago.

### The Manual

The Words of Doom is a clumsy English translation of one of the original
Manila Manuals. On its cover is a drawing of a man wearing a tuxedo,
casting rays of energy at a cringing thug in a wrinkled suit. The
manual's introduction explains that it contains magical incantations to
utterly destroy a human target.

Examining the document for authenticity is a task with Great (+4)
opposition. Success will reveal that the document is genuine, but its
true purpose is not what it claims. The manual's incantations exhort the
Watchers to transform the victim into a savage, inhuman monstrosity. The
creature will attack anyone it can find and will not stop until someone
kills it.

To use the incantations, a character must overcome using [[Lore]] against
Good (+3) opposition.

- On a tie, the character may choose to inflict either a mild or
  delayed transformation. A mild transformation leaves the victim
  disfigured, but still sane and recognizably human. A delayed
  transformation produces the full effect at any time from a month to
  a decade in the future, according to the whims of the Watchers.
- On a failure, the incantations will either transform a completely
  unintended target chosen by the GM, or the reader of the manual must
  herself be transformed.
- On a success with style, the character reading the manual may
  specify the first victim the transformed creature will seek out.
  After this first murder, the creature will be uncontrollable.

### Cast

Alfonso Petrelli, newsstand owner; Clement Watts, an unhappy advertising
executive who picked up a copy of The Words of Doom on a whim; Dorothy
Earle, an overworked salesperson; Anna Scheben and David Holyoke,
teenage students with a grudge against a teacher; Lillian Decker, an
elderly and powerful occultist who will do anything to possess all
copies of the Manila Manuals.

### Countdown Clock

**12:00-3:00:** An anonymous salesman provides Petrelli with twelve
copies of The Words of Doom, and then vanishes from the city. Over the
course of a few days, Petrelli sells all but three of the magazines.

**3:00-6:00:** After Dorothy Earle treats Clement Watts rudely at the
department store where she works, he decides to use the power The Words
of Doom promises him. He stalks Earle after her [[shift]] ends, catches up
to her at a train station, and uses the manual to transform her. She
mauls several people before falling off the platform in front of an
oncoming train, which kills her.

**6:00-9:00:** Lillian Decker arrives in the city, on the trail of the
salesman who approached Petrelli. She abducts Petrelli and violently
interrogates him to learn who bought the magazines. She leaves him
critically wounded in an alley, and starts to hunt for the new owners of
the manuals.

**9:00-10:00:** Anna Scheben and David Holyoke transform their
schoolteacher, who goes on a bloody rampage through the school. When the
police arrive, the former teacher kills several police officers before
they can bring him down.

**10:00-11:00:** Decker catches up with Scheben and Holyoke and demands
The Words of Doom. She is neither polite nor patient, and when the
encounter turns violent, she uses her magic to kill them.

**11:00-12:00:** Decker finds Watts, but he transforms her before she
can employ her power against him. Watts is now convinced that he is
unstoppable, and continues to use the manual to prey on the many
citizens of Chicago he carries a grudge against.

### What Is a Front?

A front paces the plots and schemes of villains or the terrible doom
awaiting the PCs if they don't engage with the problems emerging within
the setting. Think of a front like a train, hurtling down the tracks
toward a brick wall, ready to smash through everything unless the PCs
get in the way.

Each front features a countdown clock, a prescriptive and descriptive
measure of both what will happen if the front is left unchecked and how
much more time is left before the front is fully realized. If the front
is ignored, you tick down each section of the clock, until it reaches
the doom that awaits the PCs (prescriptive); if something achieves a
portion of the front's future plans early, move the clock directly to
that section (descriptive).

As the clock gets closer to midnight, the action becomes more elevated
and the stakes become more dire. If the PCs can stop the front early,
they may be able to avoid the worst of the consequences; waiting to
intervene until the clock is nearly exhausted means that the front will
have permanent effects on the setting even if the PCs manage to stop it.

## Engaging the Manila Manuals

Finding a Manila Manual is like finding a vial of a deadly plague---with
its safety seal broken. If you know what it is, you'll not only want to
handle it with care, but you'll also want to know who's been exposed to
it and how it's been used.

They can turn up anywhere. They're not ominous-looking tomes; they're
lightweight pamphlets, as innocuous as a magazine or comic book. They
might be in an executive's briefcase, or in a secretary's desk, or on a
child's bookshelf. Wherever you find one, you're likely to find
unexplained deaths and bizarre phenomena.

Here are a few methods you might use to include a Manila Manual in a
game scenario.

### Quest

The PCs might need to find a specific Manila Manual for a variety of
reasons:

- Someone hired the PCs to find it.
- The power of the manual will help the PCs achieve another goal.
- Someone is planning to use the manual, and the PCs must stop him.
- Someone has already used the manual, and the PCs need to find it so
  they can reverse its effects.

### Difficult Choice

If a PC finds a Manila Manual, it might present a tempting solution to
an insurmountable problem. Using the manual might remove an enemy, or
might conceal the PC's misdeeds, or might reveal information. On the
other hand, the consequences of reading the incantations can be
horrifying, even if the PC performs the ritual correctly. Presenting a
choice like this provides an opportunity to explore the limits of a
character's principles, and to confront her with the consequences of her
actions.

### Clue

A Manila Manual found at the scene of a murder---even an apparently
mundane one---might provide a path of investigation. Was the murderer
looking for the manual? Does the manual suggest that either the murderer
or the victim was an occultist? Is the manual the murder weapon?

## Adapting the Manila Manuals

The Manila Manuals are unreliable documents that give easy access to
terrible power. Other settings and worlds might have similarly dangerous
items in different forms, such as those below.

### Superheroes

In the 1970s, a villain named Professor Ultimate placed advertisements
in comic books, offering to sell occult instruction manuals for a mere
fifty cents. Those who met her price received a randomly selected
pamphlet containing the instructions to perform one of several magical
feats, such as how to make oneself invisible, or how to gain the power
of flight, or how to read minds. The instructions in these pamphlets
were genuine, although some had more sinister effects than they claimed.
The superheroes of the era eventually apprehended Professor Ultimate
and put an end to her scheme of occult proliferation, but some of her
pamphlets escaped destruction, and photocopies, scanned images, and even
a few original specimens survive to this day.

#### Alternate Stunt

**Eternal Amulet of Ir:** The Council of Ir has deemed you a worthy
champion of Earth and has charged you with the task of defending
humanity from those who use sorcery for evil. This amulet gives you a +2
bonus to oppose or remove magical effects.

### Fantasy

The spellcasting scrolls produced by the ancient sorcerer Xavar are
written in a language that is inherently magical, and that anyone---even
the illiterate---can read or copy. These scrolls place the powers of a
master wizard in the hands of whoever holds them. Unfortunately, copies
of Xavar's scrolls aren't as dependable as the originals, and reading
one may produce unexpected or disastrous results.

#### Alternate Stunt

**Obfuscate:** You may use [[Lore]]---or another appropriate skill---to
place a [Magically Scrambled] aspect on a document. The text
becomes illegible to anyone but you. If you could not read the text
before, you still can't, but no one else can, either. You may actively
oppose any attempt to remove the aspect, even if you aren't present at
the time.

### Cyberpunk

Just before the Trade Wars of the 2060s, the cybernetics corporation
AlphaThought had discovered how to reprogram the human mind to produce
psychic abilities. AlphaThought didn't survive the orbital bombing of
their headquarters in Manila, but some of their software did. If you
search the right networks on the Grid, you can find a copy, download it
through your neural interface, and wake up the next day with telekinesis
or clairvoyance. Of course, the AlphaThought project was still in an
early testing phase, so the software might have a few glitches. And if
you're downloading a third-hand copy of the original goods, who knows
what other malware you might stream into your brain?

#### Alternate Stunt

**Neural Buffer:** The Grid is more powerful than the old Internet, but
it's also more dangerous. With this upgrade installed, your neural
interface provides an extra mild consequence you can use to absorb
stress from malware attacks.

