---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Children of Perdition

by AndrÃ© La Roche

> "Dying? Not so bad after the first couple times you do it. Sinning?
> Now that's what'll trip you up in the long-term. Y'see, to get by in
> this world, to hide among these meat-bags, you gotta act like them.
> You gotta chase after those impulses, the carnal lust, the anger, the
> laziness, the jealousy---every last one of them. But when you do it
> lifetime, after lifetime, after lifetime...how the Hell do you get
> back to Heaven? I mean, you're carrying thousands of years worth of
> sin on your back. At that point, why not just, y'know...keep sinning?"
>
> --Ezekiel "Zeke"

## The First War

The War in Heaven happened. You were there. You rebelled. You lost. You
Fell. But Father is all-loving, and all-forgiving. When you and your
siblings Fell, He made one thing clear: you were always welcome back.
You just had to find the way home on your own.

For millennia you have walked the Earth in borrowed bodies. You
infiltrated governments, religions, esoteric cults, everything to find
your way back to Heaven. You could sniff out the trail of Father's love,
like a dog on the hunt. But there's one thing you never accounted for:
oh, how much fun it is to be a sinful human!

Others refused to accept this lesson, and still insist on thinking of
the crossing as a physical rather than spiritual one. These wayward
Fallen keep rebelling and causing unnecessary pain and suffering. You've
realized that Father approves when you interfere and stop them. He even
allowed a handful of you back into Heaven. Now, it's up to the rest of
you to get there.

### Mercy Falls

In time, you found your way to Mercy Falls---a city that's located at
the perfect Nexus between Heaven, Earth, and Hell. It's the perfect
place to cross back into Father's Kingdom and be forgiven for your
initial trespass and rebellion. When you got there, you learned that
getting back into Heaven was about more than being in the right place;
you had to be in the right spiritual condition. And with so much
temptation around you, that was no easy feat.

### The Children of Perdition

In Mercy Falls, you and your friends established the Children of
Perdition---a motorcycle club. The club was the perfect front to get
close to gunrunning, drug deals, grand theft, and human traffickers. It
allowed you to get in close and shut down the Fallen who hadn't learned
their lesson, and get back into Father's good graces. But it also
allowed you to go through periods of wallowing in sin and inequity.
Sometimes it's two steps forward, three steps back.

### Possession

You get by in this world by possessing bodies. Each possession lasts
until the body wears itself out through old age, or is taken out
violently. When you possess a body, the original soul moves on to its
just reward or punishment. After possessing a host, you retain all of
your own memories, as well as gaining the memories of the new host. You
feel many of the same emotional connections and ties that the host has
to others, and retain many of the same mannerisms---a new soul alone
can't cause a body to forget a lifetime of conditioning. In some ways, a
new possession results in a new Fallen just as a birth might. Friends
typically observe a Fallen carefully for a week or two after a new
possession to determine how the change in circumstance has affected
their old friend.

### Nephilim

You've found that a bit of your divine spark gets passed on to the
children you create. These children of divine and human mixture, known
as **Nephilim**, are in turn the perfect hosts for you in subsequent
generations. You cultivate and care for your Nephilim, making sure your
family grows and prospers. In time, you call upon some of them to make
the ultimate sacrifice---to become your host vessel. Some Fallen possess
only the most spiritually pure, assuring that their scions at least move
on to a reward in Heaven. Other Fallen possess the Nephilim who offer
the most immediate advantages within the physical world---even if doing
so sends the Nephilim's soul to torment.

## Setting Creation

As a Quick Start Adventure for [[Fate Core]], Children of Perdition has
everything you need to jump right into your first session. Before you
start, discuss the broader setting with your group, perhaps even reading
aloud the descriptions of The First War, Mercy Falls, The Children of
Perdition, Possession, and Nephilim so everyone is on the same page.

At the start of play, explain the **current issue** to your players and
ask them to fill in one or two additional faces associated with `The
Nephilim Trade]. These additional characters will provide new
plot hooks and twists that will tie your players more deeply to the
supernatural greaser crew of the Children of Perdition.

Then ask your players to choose from one of the two available
**impending issues**: `Heroin Epidemic: Liquid Divinity], or
`The End Times Are Coming]. Have them fill in one or two
additional faces for their chosen impending issue as well, rounding out
the larger cast of characters with their suggestions.

### Current Issue: The Nephilim Trade

Someone is identifying the Nephilim of all families, kidnapping them,
and taking them off the street. Once in captivity, they treat the
Nephilim like cattle and sell them to the highest bidding Fallen.
Whether the players see the Nephilim as entities worthy of respectful
cultivation, or mere chattels for possession, this Nephilim trade
impacts their interests. Loved ones are having the best years of their
lives ruined. More mercenary Fallen will view this as having their
assets wrongfully stolen out from under their noses. How will they
dismantle the Nephilim trafficking ring?

Faces:

- "Tricky" Dicky Walls, mayor of Mercy Falls, possessed by Malachi,
  the Fallen
- Bruce Underwood, Heaven-sent angel

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v3issue2/cards1.png)

### Impending Issues

In addition to The Nephilim Trade and the ring around it, there are a
number of other impending issues that are of concern to the Children of
Perdition including:

#### Heroin Epidemic: Liquid Divinity

Heroin is flooding the streets. Mercy Falls is slowly becoming addicted
to this drug, and the Fallen are the most vulnerable to it. Using heroin
causes them to brush with Heaven, and temporarily feel its warm embrace.
But coming down feels like going through the Fall all over again.
Violence spikes, and sin goes through the roof. What are you going to do
about this? Are you going to stop it? Or fall prey to it?

Faces:

- Sheriff Isabelle Ramirez, human sheriff of Mercy Falls
- Zorya Pulova, drug dealer, possessed by Gadreel

#### The End Times Are Coming

All of the Fallen are waking up to an inescapable fact: the Big One is
about to hit. The Omega to the Alpha; the Apocalypse. So now what? As
the world cascades towards inevitable destruction, how does this impact
a Fallen's shot at redemption? [[Will]] the slates simply be wiped clean, or
will the Fallen be forever cut off from Heaven and God, forced to wander
in cold and darkness forever?

Faces:

- Miguel Lobos, profiteering prophet, possessed by Castiel
- Rev. Charles Tucker, human faithful with the sense that not all is
  right in the world

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v3issue2/cards2.png)

## Character Creation

Children of Perdition works best with [[Fate Core]] characters. You can
choose to use Fate Accelerated approaches instead of the more
traditional skills, but the Sweet Ride rules won't be as easily portable
to that version of Fate.

In Children of Perdition, players take on the roles of members of a
motorcycle club bearing the same name. But each of the players is a
fallen angel who has traveled from host to host for millennia since the
Fall. Only in recent years (by angelic standards) have they cultivated
the motorcycle club, the Children of Perdition, in Mercy Falls. Over the
course of two or three generations, they have focused on creating
families, to keep a steady supply of related Nephilim close and begin
the serious task of seeking redemption.

At character creation, assume that all players are currently possessing
Nephilim bodies, unless a player would prefer a human one. Human bodies
are weaker, imperfect vessels for the Fallen, but they are also less
susceptible to the corrupting influence of sin.

### Virtue Aspect

Because all players can be said to play as "Fallen Angel Motorcycle
Riders," you have a Virtue aspect instead of a High Concept aspect. The
Virtue aspect serves as a reminder that once you were a glorious and
luminescent being. It is your better nature, and can never be fully
extinguished. Examples of a Virtue aspect include `Always Helps the Down
and Out]; `Treats Animals Well]; `Family Is
All-Important]; and `Spreads Salvation to Everyone
Possible].

### Vice Aspect

Likewise, because the Children are all susceptible to the same big
picture threats, instead of the Trouble aspect, you start play with two
Vice aspects. A good Vice aspect represents your Achilles heel in the
material world. It is how you either over-indulge in otherwise healthy
behaviors, or willingly embrace unhealthy ones. Examples could be `Coins
and Souls, I Trade in It All!]; `Drinks Like a Fish];
`Explosive Temper]; and `Self-Absorbed]. You can gain
new Vice aspects during play when you change an existing aspect to a
Vice aspect or take an extreme consequence.

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v3issue2/Ochoa_Perdition_Spot2.jpg)

## Skill List

Children of Perdition uses a modified skill list from traditional Fate
Core. These skills aren't new, but they've been modified and
contextualized to ensure that they make sense for the new setting. All
unlisted skills remain the same.

### Ride ([[Drive]])

Riding a motorcycle is a completely different skillset than driving a
two-axle automobile. It requires the ability to balance the motorcycle
and adjust your entire body for high velocity travel.

### [[Will]]

When choosing the [[Will]] skill, you may choose [[Will]] (Mental) or [[Will]]
(Sin). The choice determines which relevant stress track gains the
benefit of the additional stress box.

## New Extra: Fallen Powers

The Fallen all have the same basic powers:

- **Possession**: By default the Fallen have no physical form, and
  possess bodies to interact with the material world. When one host
  body dies, a Fallen feels immense pain and steadily growing coldness
  until they take a new body. If the body is human, possession is the
  only ability they have.
- **Probability Aura**: Once per game session, a Fallen who possesses
  a Nephilim body can choose to invoke an aspect for free when they
  would otherwise have to spend a [[fate point]].
- **Seer Dreams**: Every night, the Fallen who possess Nephilim bodies
  gain a symbolic preview of the upcoming day. Based on the dream they
  see, they start each day with a boost representing the dream. This
  boost lasts a full day if it is not used.
- **Fast Healer**: Fallen who possess Nephilim bodies heal at an
  accelerated rate. Minor consequences disappear immediately with a
  successful recovery roll at the end of a scene, moderate
  consequences disappear one scene after the recovery roll, and severe
  consequences disappear one session after the recovery roll. Extreme
  consequences can be renamed once you reach the next significant
  milestone. (See [[Fate Core]] System, page 164 for normal recovery
  rules.)

## New Extra: Sweet Rides

Being an angelic biker has its advantages: namely, a sweet ride! Each of
the Children of Perdition has a sweet ride, a motorcycle customized to
their rider. For players who are motorcycle enthusiasts, this is the
time to get lavish with the description of the sweet ride. Each sweet
ride starts with the following basic abilities:

- Carry one rider and one passenger.
- Move up to three zones for free per exchange of a conflict (Fate
  Core System, page 169).
- Three stress boxes; minor consequence (-2), moderate consequence
  (-4).
- Two sweet ride stunts: A rider of a sweet ride can use the
  motorcycle's stunts as though they were their own. Choose two from
  the following stunt list:
- **Amped-up Shocks:** Your motorcycle gains +2 to [[Drive]] rolls
    made when overcoming obstacles related to rough terrain.
- **Mounted Guns:** The motorcycle gains the [[Shoot]] skill at Fair
    (+2).
- **My Bike Is a Weapon:** When you attack by colliding your
    motorcycle with your enemy, you avoid taking [[shift]]s of stress.
    (Note: originally printed in Brendan Conway's `_The Dead and the
    Doomed_](../dead-and-doomed/index.html), _The Fate Codex_,
    Volume 1, Issue 6).
- **Nitro Boost:** The motorcycle can move one additional zone per
    round of a conflict.
- **Sexy Paint Job:** Your motorcycle impresses all who look at
    it. You gain a +2 bonus when using the [[Rapport]] skill. You gain
    this bonus as long as you're near the bike, even if you're not
    riding it at the moment.
- **Sidecar:** The motorcycle can carry a second passenger.

Opponents can choose to attack a sweet ride's stress track instead of
the rider's own stress track. The attack is resisted by a defend action
using the rider's Ride skill.

## New Extra: Sin Stress Track

The greatest secret kept from humans is this: Hell is just distance from
God. It's not an actual place of torment and tortures---that's just what
humans have believed for a long time. That distance itself causes a
spiritual pain that is most easily numbed in temporary excess and
pleasures.

What this means is that every soul that is not in Heaven is technically
in Hell. Already, the Children literally ride through Hell on Earth. But
there's good news: Hell is a temporary state of existence. Damned souls
and fallen angels alike can find their way back to God---if they're
willing to do the hard work, and allow themselves to let go of sin,
possession, and vice.

To represent this, Children of Perdition have a sin stress track in
addition to the physique and mental stress tracks. The stress track
represents their struggle with the seven deadly sins, and provides you
with two boxes. This can be improved by selecting sin as your subset of
the [[Will]] skill (see Skill List, earlier this section).

Others can attack your sin track using [[Provoke]] to try to tempt you into
giving in to a brand-new vice, or making you indulge in an existing one
to the detriment of your mission and your personal path to redemption.
You can defend against these attacks by rolling [[Will]]. Fallen who possess
human bodies (instead of Nephilim) add +2 to their [[Will]] rolls to resist
such attacks.

If you're taken out ([[Fate Core]] System, page 168) through attacks to your
sin stress track, your opponent narrates how you fell prey to your
sinful nature in a spectacularly self-destructive way that derails you
from your path of redemption. If you concede ([[Fate Core]] System, page
167), you still make a profoundly bad decision, but can mitigate the
damage through your own narration.

## Angelic Advancement: Greater Angelic Powers

The longer a Fallen stays in a Nephilim body, the more of its full power
it can use in the physical world. As a Fallen advances ([[Fate Core]]
System, page 255), it can choose to take on the following stunts:

- **Tongues**. The Fallen can speak and understand all human
  languages.
- **Time Freeze.** By spending a [[fate point]], the Fallen can briefly
  freeze time. Only the Fallen and its allies are able to act in a
  single combat round. Time moves on normally afterwards.
- **Fiery Weapons.** Any weapon wielded by a Fallen is surrounded in
  an aura of flames. For ammunition, this happens once it's fired from
  the projectile weapon. All weapons and ammunition gain the advantage
  Wreathed in Flames.
- **Penance Stare.** A Fallen may peer into the eyes of anyone, human
  or Fallen alike, and bring the pain of their past misdeeds to the
  surface. This attack can either target mental or sin stress tracks.
  The Fallen attacks with [[Provoke]], the target defends with [[Will]].
- **Know History.** Once per scene, a Fallen may touch and study an
  item. The Fallen immediately knows the full history of that item.

## Redemption

Through advancement, you can change a Vice aspect into a Virtue aspect
or a neutral aspect once you reach a significant milestone ([[Fate Core]]
System, page 258). If one of the Fallen loses all their Vice aspects, by
either converting them all into Virtue aspects or something neutral,
they've become redeemed. In this state, and while within the bounds of
Mercy Falls, death ushers them back to Heaven. However, before this
final death, their old colleagues will notice that the redeemed is no
longer on the prowl, or at the clubhouse or bars anymore. It's said
misery loves company, and some of the more lost and wayward Fallen will
seek out the Redeemed to tempt and lure them back to a stray path.

Can the Fallen avoid the temptations of their old associates while still
living a full and satisfying life? Or will they find themselves once
again drinking, carousing, and in the midst of criminal activity?

!`](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v3issue2/Ochoa_Perdition_Spot1.jpg)

## Opening Scene: On the Run!

After dealing contraband weapons to another gang across county lines,
the Children of Perdition are on their way back to their clubhouse. The
deal went down successfully, and no bullets were fired. Despite this,
several NPC Nephilim club members didn't show up---seemingly the latest
victims in a rumored Nephilim trafficking ring.

On their way back, they're alerted by the sound of sirens. The
Children's only hope is to outrun the out-of-county Sheriffs and get
back to Mercy Falls, where these deputies have no jurisdictional
authority. Treat the chase as a contest ([[Fate Core]] System, page 150). If
the Sheriff's deputies gain three successes before the Children, then
they are able to catch up with the Children and blockade their exit. If
the Children gain three successes, they get away clean as could be from
the scene of the crime. What happens if the Children are caught by the
deputies? [[Will]] they find a way to talk and trick their way out of
trouble, or will they resort to a violent wrath?## Out-of-County Sheriffs

### Aspects

The Long Arm of the Law

Limited Jurisdiction

### Skill Modes:

Average (+1) [[Drive]], [[Shoot]]

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡

## Sheriff Isabelle Ramirez

Sheriff Ramirez is a human native of Mercy Falls. Although she doesn't
know of the exact truth behind her city's supernatural occurrences, like
most natives she knows that there's more to its inhabitants than meets
the eye. She is determined to bring law and order back to her hometown,
no matter the cost.

### Aspects

`Sheriff of Mercy Falls]

`There's Always More Than You Realize]

`People Here Have Too Many Secrets]

Other: `Nobody's Above the Law]; `No Dice, No Way]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Investigate]]

Good (+3) [[Drive]], [[Shoot]]

Fair (+2) [[Empathy]], [[Provoke]], [[Will]] (Mental)

Average (+1) [[Contacts]], [[Fight]], [[Notice]], [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

**Called Shot:** During a [[Shoot]] attack, spend a [[fate point]] and declare a
specific condition you want to inflict on a target, like Shot in the
Hand. If you succeed, you place that as a [[situation aspect]] on them in
addition to hitting them for stress.

**Hard to Shake:** +2 to [[Drive]] skill when you're pursuing another
vehicle in a chase scene.

**Lie Whisperer:** +2 to all [[Empathy]] rolls made to discern or discover
lies, whether they're directed at you or someone else.

### Stress

Physical: â¡â¡

Mental: â¡â¡â¡

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3## Middle Scene: Law Don't Go 'Round Here

The middle scene takes place at the clubhouse owned by the Children of
Perdition. At some point when the Children are back at the clubhouse,
Sheriff Ramirez shows up to investigate the recent heroin epidemic in
Mercy Falls. She believes the club is responsible for the epidemic and
hints as much, but stops just shy of directly accusing the club of
dealing. The club itself has had problems with groupies overdosing, and
even a few NPC members have begun to chase the tiger, as it gets them
the closest they've been to Heaven since the Fall. How will the group
react? [[Will]] they pursue information from Sheriff Ramirez to investigate
on their own? How will they handle being disrespected on their own turf?

Some time after the sheriff leaves, the wife of one of the missing
Nephilim club members bursts through the doors---she says that a friend
of a friend heard scuttle that the Nephilim traffickers will be selling
their captives. The deal will go down in a nearby rural cornfield just
south of Mercy Falls tomorrow at midnight. It will be the perfect
opportunity for the club to rescue its own, and secure its interests.## Nephilim Traffickers

### Aspects

`Know the Nephilim Trade], `Cowardly at Heart]

### Skills

Average (+1) [[Fight]], Ride

### Stress

â¡â¡â¡## Final Scene: Busting the Nephilim Trade

If the Children arrive at the cornfield several hours before midnight,
they should easily be able to hide in waiting without rousing suspicion.
Eventually, a large unmarked van pulls up, flanked by four goons on
motorcycles. The van driver and one passenger get out, and six Nephilim
are held bound and gagged in the back of the van. The sellers wait for a
half hour for the buyers to show up. Eventually, a motorcycle approaches
with a rider and a passenger. The passenger takes the keys to the van
from the van driver and, if the Children don't stop him, will drive the
van and its cargo south to the nearest metropolitan city. The original
van driver and passenger will get rides back to Mercy Falls with two of
the goons on motorcycles.

If the Children act before the buyers show up, they lose the opportunity
to learn where the Nephilim cargo is heading, but gain the advantage of
having two fewer opponents to fight. Regardless of when the Children
strike, the traffickers' riders defend the van by firing shotguns at
their attackers. If two of the traffickers are killed, the rest
immediately leave, heading back to Mercy Falls where they try to lose
the Children.

If the Children are able to take any of the dealers alive, successful
questioning reveals that the Nephilim trafficking ring is being run by
Dicky Walls---the Fallen-possessed mayor of Mercy Falls. What will the
Children do with this information? [[Will]] they move against Walls? How
will they keep their own Nephilim relatives safe from abduction? If the
Children used lethal force, they'll need to do something with the bodies
to ensure that the violence isn't traced back to the club.

## Plot Hooks and Adventure Seeds

The adventures of the Children of Perdition can continue beyond this
scenario. The players may have evaded capture by the out-of-county
sheriffs, and even rescued their Nephilim club members from being traded
like cattle, but each of these solutions begs for follow-up that could
get the Children in trouble with the laws of humanity.

### Investigation Follow-Up

The out-of-county sheriffs will now have time to coordinate with Sheriff
Ramirez to investigate the Children. The Children are the most notorious
motorcycle club in the area. As such, they are the most logical targets
for law enforcement officers investigating the chase from the start of
the adventure. The out-of-county sheriffs will be especially motivated
if the Children harmed any of their deputies. How will the Children hide
their gun-smuggling operation from the combined efforts of two law
enforcement agencies? [[Will]] they be able to throw the sheriffs onto a
false trail before the Feds get involved?

### Dicky Walls and the Nephilim Trade

The Children may have rescued their missing club members and stopped the
Nephilim trafficking deal, but they only dealt with paid thugs. The
trade ring still continues, and since Dicky Walls is making a killing
off of selling Nephilim captives to the Fallen across the state, he
won't let this one small setback stop the trade. Who does Dicky hire to
actually abduct the Nephilim? Who else is involved in the trade? How
quickly can the Children move against Walls given the fact that he is a
very public figure within Mercy Falls?

### Rival Motorcycle Clubs

The Children aren't the only motorcycle club out there. Given the age of
their charter and their notorious reputation, they have plenty of
rivalry. Some of it comes from human motorcycle clubs who are puzzled
that the club seems to have so many of the same personality types pop up
across each generation. Other rivals are supernatural. How will the
Children react to the Braineaters---a motorcycle club of werewolves who
roam from town to town? When the Braineaters come to Mercy Falls, will
the Children prevent them from tearing the town up under the light of
the full moon? Or will they jump whole-heartedly into the wrathful fray
of supernatural gang warfare?

### Wandering Souls

One thing the Fallen know about, but few speak of, are the
Wanderers---Fallen who have chosen not to possess a new host after their
last one died. These Wanderers are invisible by default, but can
manifest as small translucent orbs of light. They cannot use words or
language, but are able to communicate with other Fallen through the use
of gentle colors, slight temperature adjustments, and purring sounds.
Their presence in the physical world diminishes slowly but surely until
they no longer exist. Are they dying a true and permanent death, or have
they found a guaranteed path back to Heaven? Who amongst the Children is
willing to take the risk to find out? Or are the Wanderers up to
something else entirely?

### Motorcycle [[Fight]] Club

The clubhouse is divided into a large lounge full of pool tables, a
smaller side office used for meetings, and a hallway of bunkrooms for
members to sleep and crash for the night. Tonight is [[Fight]] Club night,
where members and groupies are able to try their hand at non-lethal
fistfights. The clubhouse is almost always active until the early
morning hours, when members and club groupies retire. By 1pm the next
day, the clubhouse is active again. Winner grabs a pot of cash. +

## Pregenerated Characters## Rosasharn Jackson (Ariel)

Rosasharn is the sister to Emilia, and host of the Fallen named Ariel.
She bartends at the club and pulls in extra money from working as a
waitress at a local restaurant. She's warm and friendly, and incredibly
talkative. Everyone is willing to talk to her to get the scoop on recent
happenings in Mercy Falls.

### Aspects

Virtue: `Mama Bear to Everyone]

Vice: `Just Wants to be Loved]

Vice: `Roars like a Lion]

Other: `Able to Get Out of a Jam] | `Every Rose Has Its
Thorns]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Contacts]]

Good (+3) [[Fight]], Ride

Fair (+2) [[Deceive]], [[Empathy]], [[Will]] (Sin)

Average (+1) [[Investigate]], [[Notice]], [[Shoot]], [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

**Everybody Loves Rose:** You may use [[Contacts]] as though it were the
[[Rapport]] skill when working at the Motorcycle Club or at the restaurant.

**Sin Resistant:** Once per conflict, spend a [[fate point]] to reduce
damage to your Sin stress track by two [[shift]]s.

**Sucker Punch:** Once per conflict, when you fight unarmed, you gain
one free invoke against an opponent.

### Stress

Physical: â¡â¡ | Mental: â¡â¡ | Sin: â¡â¡â¡

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3

Sweet Ride: One rider and two passengers; 3 zones of movement

### sweet ride Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### sweet ride Consequences

Minor (2) | Moderate (4);

### sweet ride Stunts

**My Bike Is a Weapon:** When you are riding your motorcycle, you can
avoid taking [[shift]]s of stress that you deal when you attack by colliding
with your enemy.

**Sidecar:** The motorcycle can carry a second passenger.

## Emilia Jackson (Kushiel)

Emilia is the sister to Rosasharn, and the host to Kushiel. If Rosasharn
is day, Emilia is night. She's quiet, and works as a court reporter so
she doesn't have to do the talking in the room. She keeps a keen ear
open for goings-on that might impact the club's interests.

### Aspects

Virtue: `Silence Is a Virtue]

Vice: `Numbs the Pain]

Vice: `Jackrabbit-Excitable]

Other: `It Is What it Is] | `I Can Move Beyond
Anything]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Notice]]

Good (+3) [[Deceive]], [[Empathy]]

Fair (+2) [[Fight]], Ride, [[Will]] (Mental)

Average (+1) [[Athletics]], [[Provoke]], [[Resources]], [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

**Emo Emo:** Roll [[Notice]] instead of [[Empathy]] when someone tries to hide
something from you.

**Secretive by Nature:** +2 on all [[Deceive]] rolls when you hide your
mental state and related aspects.

**Strength from Determination:** Use [[Will]] instead of [[Physique]] on any
overcome rolls representing feats of strength. ([[Fate Core]] System, page
127).

### Stress

Physical: â¡â¡ | Mental: â¡â¡â¡ | Sin: â¡â¡

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3

Sweet Ride: One rider and one passenger; 3 zones of movement

### sweet ride Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### sweet ride Consequences

Minor (2) | Moderate (4)

### sweet ride Stunts

**Amped-up Shocks:** The bike gains +2 to [[Drive]] rolls made when
overcoming obstacles related to rough terrain.

**Sexy Paint Job:** Your motorcycle impresses all who look at it. You
gain a +2 bonus when using the [[Rapport]] skill. You gain this bonus as
long as you're near the bike, even if you're not riding it at the
moment.

## Logan Anderson (Samael)

Logan, host of Samael, works at a local garage where he specializes in
motorcycle repair and maintenance. He has a rough-and-tumble, loud
personality, and is always in the center of trouble. He's fiercely
overprotective of Rosasharn (Ariel) and Emilia (Kushiel), although if he
had to admit it, he knows that they're far more than capable of taking
care of themselves.

### Aspects:

Virtue: `Loyal Until the End of Time]

Vice: `Obsessively Controlling]

Vice: `Bedtime Is the Best Time]

Other: `Silver-Tongued Devil] | `The Man Comes
Around]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Rapport]]

Good (+3) [[Provoke]], Ride

Fair (+2) [[Contacts]], [[Deceive]], [[Fight]]

Average (+1) [[Investigate]], [[Physique]], [[Resources]], [[Shoot]]

### Stunts

**Born to Ride:** When rolling Ride for [[Overcome]] actions, treat any
success as a success with style and failure as a tie.

**Chain Gang:** +2 on all [[Fight]] rolls when wielding a chain as a weapon.

**Disturbing Presence:** Once per scene, gain an additional free invoke
on an opponent's consequence taken to offset sin stress.

### Stress

Physical: â¡â¡â¡ | Mental: â¡â¡ | Sin: â¡â¡

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3

Sweet Ride: One rider and one passenger; 4 zones of movement

### sweet ride Skills

[[Shoot]] +2

### sweet ride Stress

â¡â¡â¡

### sweet ride Consequences

Minor (2) | Moderate (4)

### sweet ride Stunts

**Mounted Guns:** The motorcycle gains the [[Shoot]] skill at Fair (+2).

**Nitro Boost:** The motorcycle can move one additional zone per round of a conflict.

