---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:06
---

Fate Codex

# Culture from the Outside In

_by [[Quinn Murphy]]_

A common challenge in running games is delivering believable cultures to
players. When building cultures that stray from typical fantasy norms,
there aren't familiar tropes to rely on, making the task more difficult.
How do you supply enough context to make a culture seem real without
taking up half the session in explanation? What's the best way to turn
your research and imagination into a culture that feels real and
different to your table? How do you build these cultures with minimum
effort and maximum playability?

Answer these questions by starting culture design from the outside and
working inward. Rather than build a culture from its history and
resultant customs and belief systems, start with customs, followed by
its beliefs and then its history.

Start with customs first because they are the most "gameable" element of
culture. Rather than trying to introduce characters to a new culture by
explaining about that culture's history, show them what members of that
culture are like by describing what type of things it is that they do.
If the characters start to interact more with people from that culture,
they can see new customs and actions. If they don't, the other benefit
is a lack of wasted effort. The GM has not designed a lot of history and
setting information that the characters failed to interact with.

## Five Customs

To start, provide the culture with a name, then give it five customs. A
custom should be written in first person, and it should not state what
the people value or believe. Customs are boundaries on actions, listing
what a culture does or doesn't do, rather than just listing that a
culture believes in X or doesn't believe in Y. The more actively you can
describe the custom, the easier it is for the player to understand how
the culture operates, without getting bogged down in history or
philosophy. "We always do this" or "We never do that" are perfectly
fine.

### The Kitani

- We never use any tool more complicated than an abacus.

- We always take the simplest method of achieving our short term goals
  if given an option.

- We solve our problems through physical might.

- We go through obstacles, never around.

- We observe the natural order closely and live in tune with it.

Here is a quick sketch of a culture, so what should be done with it?
NPCs can be introduced as following any of these customs. NPCs could
also be shown in conflict with their culture's customs. Maybe the
characters stumble into an argument where one NPC is trying to find a
more subtle way around a problem while her companion insists they
approach it directly, like a "proper" Kitani always does.

Once you've laid out your customs, realize that these represent ideals
of the culture, not absolutes. Any individual from that culture will
observe all, some, or none of these customs. There are many ways you can
introduce customs and settings to your players from this initial seed.
Characters could be asked to take sides in an intra-cultural dispute of
new ways versus old ways, or they might find themselves observing a
culture fighting to keep its traditions in the face of sweeping changes
such as plague and war.

## Paragons

With customs introduced, it is now time to create three to five cultural
paragons of the culture. These are roles of reverence and representative
of the culture's ideals. They don't represent common positions or roles
but roles that must be attained.

For the Kitani we'll use `Scholar of the Wild], `Berserker
King], and `Master Woodsman] as our paragons. Each
reflects ideals of Kitani culture as expressed through the customs we've
outlined previously.

These paragons can usually be slotted into one of an NPC's aspects for
the fractally minded amongst you. Use as-is or with variations that fit
the character.

## Adding More Detail

Having looked at the outsides of our culture, we can start to dig a
little deeper. An advantage to the outside-in approach is that if the
play group is satisfied with the quick peek at a culture, focus remains
solely on what characters see and interact with. If the characters keep
interacting with the culture, you can add further details.

### Cultural Values

Our next step then is to learn what our culture thinks of itself.
Starting with _"A member of the culture is..."_ you can create a list of
ten adjectives or nouns that describe what people from this culture
value. We'll continue with our Kitani culture:

### A Kitani is...

- Brave

- Defiant

- Brash

- Forthright

- Quiet

- Charismatic

- Clean

- Honorable

- Tough

- Relentless

These can be used to assign aspects to NPCs as in previous sections. It
also provides a deeper sense of who these people are and what they
value. Roleplay and interactions should inform at least part of the list
of values.

One way to involve players and increase their investment is to let them
build part of the list. Ask each player to provide 1 or 2 elements.
_"How do you think the Kitani see themselves?"_ can be a provocative and
entertaining exercise for the group. Realize though that this list is
how the culture sees itself. It's important to remember that the values
on this list should be things that the culture considers positive, not
what an outsider would
deem positive.

When using values as aspects, they can be lifted from the list as-is,
but also consider using them in conjunction with other aspects. Values
can augment other aspects to create high amounts of variation that still
represent the themes of a culture.

> Making a Kitani NPC, a GM can use _Tough_ or _Relentless_, as Aspects,
> but can mix them with the paragons listed previously to get
> _**Relentless Berserker King**_, _**Defiant Scholar of the Wild**_, or
> _**Charismatic Master Woodsma**_n. Combining values with other Aspects
> "flavors" and tailors them to the built culture.

### Cultural History

The next stage of developing your culture is determining how it came to
be as it is today. The process has so far stayed completely away from
history, starting at the present and moving backwards towards the past.
The previous steps allow a lot of knowledge through inference about the
people in this culture, so the only gap left to fill is the historical
context which they inhabit. The process didn't ignore history because
it's unimportant but rather because it's too difficult a place to start.
However, now that so much is known about how people in the culture live
and what they value, it should be much easier to hone in on events of
historical significance to members of the culture. These events
contribute to everything known about these people.

First, define a triumphant event. This event is a "golden age" epoch or
moment for members of the culture. This event should evoke pride and
positive feelings.

> For the Kitani, this event is _**Destroying the Empire's Shipyard**_.
> This is where the Kitani won their independence from the Empire, and
> set out for themselves on their own ships.

Next, define a failure event. The failure event is our culture at its
lowest point. This is an event many from the culture won't even want to
discuss, as it is too painful a piece of history to deal with.

> For the Kitani, this event is _**King Lowdin Surrendering**_. This
> lost battle is what placed the Kitani under the Empire's rule in the
> first place. Having seen what happens when they do surrender, it is no
> surprise that they are now more likely to simply charge forward and
> take their chances.

Lastly, come up with up to three other significant events. These events
are known to all members of the culture, though opinion may remain
divided. The events can be lore or fable, or it can be an event that
actually occurred. Critically important is that the events be shared.

Players earn access to these events as "rewards" for engaging actively
with a culture. If the characters are around a culture long enough, they
will learn about these events and stories. When characters reach this
point, simply supply the events on an index card. Mark the positive
events with a + and the negative events with a -. These events can be
invoked and compelled as aspects, but negative events might make NPCs
particularly sour if rolls go poorly.

> For the Kitani, the significant events are _**Discovery of a New
> World**_ and _**Chopping Down the Fallwood Forest**_. The former
> encapsulates the Kitani's journey to a new world after escaping the
> Empire and the latter is a common legend told of some Kitani Woodsman
> who made a bet to see who could chop down the most trees and in doing
> so ended up cutting down most of the forest. The story is a teaching
> tool used to instill humility and attention to nature's needs in young
> Kitani children.

## Cultural Detail

After blocking out the major high level aspects of a culture, it is time
to provide more detail. Keeping the building fractal, the next step is
to provide cultural skills and cultural stunts. These skills and stunts
can be used to flesh out NPCs of a particular culture but can also be
used at a high level if cultures come into conflict.

### Cultural Skills

Every culture has skills that it values higher than others. A full skill
pyramid isn't required, however: It's assumed that a culture values a
few skills but has all others within its population to some degree.
Determine the culture's peak skill, which will be at Great (+4). Next,
pick two Good (+3) skills. That's it!

> The Kitani's skill pyramid has [[Physique]] at its peak, with [[Fight]] and
> [[Athletics]] below it. The Kitani pride themselves on their physical
> access to the world, and these skills provide it.

NPCs from this culture will tend to have these skills at higher than
normal ranks for their type. Cultures that come into conflict will use
these skills as characters would, but in the context of cultural [[shift]]s (explained below).

### Cultural Stunts

Attached to the cultural skills are stunts. For each skill, design a
rebel stunt and a paragon stunt. A rebel stunt represents a stunt of
someone who rejects some cultural norm, while a paragon stunt represents
the capabilities of a person who embraces this element of the culture.
Building a rebel stunt means developing a sense for how someone brought
up in this culture now rejects the accepted way something is done. How
would a pacifist from a warrior culture use [[Fight]]? How does fighter from
a peaceful culture use [[Empathy]]? Answering this sort of question leads to
finding a proper
rebel stunt.

Building a paragon stunt means thinking about the culture's relation
with a skill. A warrior culture needs [[Fight]], but what does that mean
exactly? What is it about fighting that draws these people to it? Here
is where the previous work of establishing values and history will
really help.

### Kitani Cultural Stunts

#### [[Physique]]

- **(Rebel) Trickster's Jape.** You use your physical talents to anger
  others and instigate fights. Let others rush headlong into problems;
  you'd rather get your opponents off-balance and rushing at you! You
  may spend a [[fate point]] to use your [[Physique]] instead of [[Provoke]].

- **(Paragon) Overwhelming Presence.** Some lead with words. You lead
  with actions and presence. Once per session you may use [[Physique]] in
  place of any one [[Rapport]] or [[Empathy]] roll.

#### [[Athletics]]

- **(Rebel) Master of the Street.** +2 to [[overcome]] actions with
  [[Athletics]] when in a city.

- **(Paragon) Master of the Wood.** +2 to [[overcome]] actions with
  [[Athletics]] when you are in a forest.

#### [[Fight]]

- **(Rebel) Clever Fighting.** +2 to your first [[Fight]] attack roll if
  you used [[Lore]], [[Provoke]], or [[Deceive]] in a previous action this scene.

- **(Paragon) Fighting Spirit.** Spend a [[fate point]] to use your [[Fight]]
  skill against a [[Deceive]] or [[Provoke]] roll.

## Cultures in Conflict

Cultures easily come into conflict. While conflict can take place on
battlefields, cultures also conflict when their ideas and concepts meet
each other. When a culture comes into conflict with another, treat each
culture like a character. Each culture has a cultural stress track of
three boxes. Individual characters cannot take actions against a culture
except by mobilizing other cultural forces against it.

When a culture is taken out, it immediately regains the stress boxes and
undergoes a cultural [[shift]]. In a cultural [[shift]], one of the following
happens:

- A custom is changed by a few details.

- One value is changed.

- An event is added to culture's history.

Track the number of cultural [[shift]]s a culture goes through. Every three
cultural [[shift]]s causes a major cultural [[shift]]. In a major cultural
[[shift]], one of the following happens:

- A custom is completely rewritten, to as many details as the winning
  culture wishes.

- Up to three values are changed.

- A cultural skill is raised or lowered.

All changes should go through the GM, but major cultural [[shift]]s should
be dramatic and reflective of the smaller [[shift]]s that lead up to it.

## Making Culture Work in Your Games

Culture is a big subject. It's definitely much bigger than this article,
and maybe too big for any one game. Especially when making fantasy
cultures whose basis lies in real world cultures there is a fear of
"getting it wrong." One reason the outside-in method was developed was
to help build these cultures with less of that fear. By trying to build
cultures from respectful noting of observable behaviors and then
drilling down into beliefs and values, the hope is to avoid making
judgments and presumptions on a particular culture. Nothing is perfect,
however. There is always the risk of getting it wrong, but that doesn't
mean that we can't take steps to bring culture more meaningfully into
our games. These "outside-in" techniques are one way to do it; hopefully
you and your group enjoy it! +

