---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
---

Fate Codex

# Forged by Fates

_by Marissa Kelly_

> Those two have traveled side by side to Hades' realm and back.
> Together they have defeated horrific monsters, studied with the
> greatest philosophers, and offered their aid to kings and peasants
> alike. And on this eve of battle, I pledge my allegiance and trust to
> them my life, for no god dare deny the respect they are due. The
> safety of our home is best placed in their hands. I follow their lead,
> using whatever courage they have stirred within these old bones in
> this eleventh hour of our need.
>
> ---Phaidros of Acanthus

[[### Two Hero Fate

_**Forged by Fates**_ is designed for two players and a GM, but it also
works great if you have a friend make a guest appearance in the story
here or there! To help with a guest appearance, there are two fully
statted NPCs at the end of this adventure that you can use as
pregenerated characters.## Young Earth

In a land full of life and wonder, where villages blossom in green
valleys and magical creatures roam the dense forests, there is a cry for
heroes, for this beautiful land is not without its share of evils and
dangers. Peaceful lands are threatened, threats arise that confound the
people, and the need for heroes is great in this time of Young Earth.

Gods, heroes, and monsters wander the world, shaping it in their images.
Warlords and kings brandish their flags in times of peace and war, and
civil unrest falls upon everyone in turn. Magical caves, legendary
swords, and ancient rituals are commonplace for those inclined to seek
out power. Those who dare tempt fate can be rewarded, but there are
always strings attached...

### The Gods

The gods are the embodiment of concepts, bitter and jealous creatures
who succumb to vanity often and without remorse. Gods scheme and
manipulate mortals to gain influence and power over earthly affairs,
because the power of a god only remains strong while the people of Young
Earth believe in them.

The gods earn power and status through earthly conquests and epic
triumphs done in their name. Aiding or smiting heroes is always in their
best interest, and they frequently tempt influential mortals with
unspeakable power, unending armies, and unnaturally long life. They
bestow supernatural gifts upon those who can serve them, and their
names, best.

When not on Young Earth, the gods retire to their realms---physical
places where they alone reside and few mortals dare enter. Only heroes
have strength enough to undergo perilous quests to a god's realm for
glory, love, or to prove their worth. Those who succeed are rewarded
with their heart's desire, but also attract the attention of other gods.

### Mortals

The typical citizen praises the gods and lives a modest life with little
chance for social or economic advancement. Nobles rule the provinces,
protect generations of farmers, merchants, and other townsfolk---and tax
them heavily in kind. Many mortals resort to banditry and a life of
crime because there are few other ways to survive.

The people of Young Earth are ruled by tradition, but they remain
open-minded to new paths forward, especially when they see those paths
modeled for them. Class and gender roles are established and
traditional, but railing against them is usually rewarded. Destitute men
rise from nothing to become great kings, courageous women show more
skill on the battlefield than any man, and the masses generally praise
them for it.

### Mythical Creatures

Centaurs, mermaids, monsters, and demi-gods make up a minority
population on Young Earth. Some, like the Cyclops, are one-of-a-kind,
forced to wander the landscape alone as outcasts, while others have
communities and command their own formidable armies. These mythical
creatures have unfamiliar forms and cultures far different than you
might find in a mortal city.

That said, mythical creatures have hopes, dreams, and fears just like
any mortal. They may have different traditions and experiences, but
humans can interact with them peacefully, often trading or sharing
resources if both communities can maintain an alliance.

### The Warrior Princess

The Warrior Princess was once a great warlord. Her banner struck fear
into the hearts of all who crossed her path, and her armies nearly
conquered the world. Though she has given up who she once was, she is
still haunted by her dark and mysterious past.

The Warrior Princess now dedicates her life to atoning for her past
cruelty by serving those in need and protecting the weak. She's
strong-willed and a skilled fighter, but her new life brings challenges
beyond wielding a sword. She finds herself trying to serve and protect
the very people who fear and hate her name. The crimes of her past and
the ever-present temptation to take the easy way out make following this
virtuous path a battle all of its own.

The Warrior Princess can never forgive herself, and alone she might
return to her old ways... but she doesn't face the journey alone. A
Companion travels with her, the one person who believes in her, guides
her, and stands by her side when times look most bleak.

### The Companion

The Companion is an ambitious woman from a small village whose dreams of
travel and adventure alienated her from her family. Though her
rebellious nature makes her an outsider, she still embodies many of her
village's traditions, from her training in the arts and healing to her
refined storytelling skills.

The Companion values all life and uses fighting techniques that focus on
defense, but she is not one to be pushed around. She has always felt
compelled to stand up for what's right even when the odds are stacked
against her. The Companion knows her friend has done horrific things in
the past, but believes in what the Warrior Princess stands for now.

Joining the Warrior Princess was a life changing experience. Their
talents complement each other, and they have much to learn from one
another, but above all she believes in the good they can accomplish
together. Her family back in her village means a lot to her, even if she
doesn't admit it, but her heart belongs to adventures and stories
untold.

## Setting Creation

As a Quick Start Adventure, _**Forged by Fates**_ has everything you
need to jump right into your first session. Before you start, discuss
the broader setting with your group, perhaps even reading aloud the
descriptions of the world, gods, and the Warrior Princess and Companion,
so everyone is on the same page.

At the start of play, explain the **current issue** to your players and
ask them to fill in one or two additional faces associated with it.
These additional characters will provide new plot hooks and twists that
tie your players more deeply to Young Earth.

Then ask your players to choose one of two available **impending
issues**: [Thieves of Pandora's Box] or [Mother of a
Monster]. Have them fill in one or two additional faces for
their chosen impending issue as well, rounding out the larger cast of
characters with their suggestions.

### Current Issue: A World in Turmoil

[[Resources]] are stretched thin and wars rage across the land. The people
grow weary of battle, but Queen Killias grows greedier with each victory
she claims. Killias hopes to one day be called "emperor," and with the
warlord Andras under her command, no kingdom can stop her from becoming
a god-king of Young Earth.

Faces:

- Queen Killias, who wishes to make herself emperor of Young Earth
- Warlord Andras, a man of simple tastes who prides himself at being
  the best at what he does

[[

### Impending Issues

In addition to [A World in Turmoil] and the threat it poses, a
number of other impending issues trouble the land.

![](https://sites/default/files/images/codex/v2issue2/impending-cards.png)

#### Thieves of Pandora's Box

At the dawn of Young Earth, the benevolent gods locked many unspeakable
horrors in an enchanted box. Though guarded and protected for centuries
by monks, it was recently stolen by an unknown force. Rumors of the
theft have swept across Young Earth, but no one has claimed
responsibility or made any demands. The monks blame the Amazons---the
woman warriors always believed that the box would be safer in the forest
with them, away from the prying hands of men. The Amazons deny
responsibility. Whoever is to blame could plunge the world into darkness
for a thousand years by opening the box, but the Amazons and monks may
come to blows long before that happens.

Faces:

- Daria, high monk of the temple of Kent where the box was kept
- Fillia, a woman who left the temple of Kent years ago to become an
  Amazon warrior

#### Mother of a Monster

The sole survivor of one of the Warrior Princess' early conquests,
Nikias' thirst for vengeance is her only comfort. Nikias pledged herself
to a god of vengeance so that one day she could punish the one who
wronged her.

Nikias dedicated her life to becoming as strong and clever as the
Warrior Princess and will not stop until the Warrior Princess and
everyone she cares about is ruined. Over the past month the Warrior
Princess and Companion have felt someone's eyes on them as they travel.
It's only a matter of time before Nikias strikes.

Faces:

- Nikias, the monstrous reflection of the Warrior Princess' past,
  plotting to exact vengeance
- Miltos, the right hand companion of Nikias who has her heart set on
  amassing a following powerful enough to conquer kingdoms

## Character Creation

In _**Forged by Fates**_, two players take on the roles of the Warrior
Princess and the Companion, heroes of Young Earth who adventure together
helping those in need. You can use the pregenerated characters at the
end of this article, but both the Warrior Princess and the Companion are
broad archetypes; players can create their own versions for your story
with unique backgrounds and abilities.

Players can choose any gender (male, female, trans*, other) for their
characters, but it's important that both the Warrior Princess and
Companion are the same gender. _**Forged by Fates**_ is about exploring
a bond between two same-gender characters as they journey across Young
Earth.

_**Forged by Fates**_ works best with [[Fate Core]] characters. Players
select their aspects in accordance with their character type (the
Warrior Princess or the Companion), choose skills from the modified list
provided, and take stunts, stress tracks, and refresh per [[Fate Core]].

### Aspects

Both characters start with their own respective **signature high
concepts**---[The Warrior Princess] and [The
Companion]---and **troubles**---[Mysterious Past] and
[A Simple Life Is Not for Me]. These phrases broadly describe
how their characters interact with the world and are the same for every
pair of characters.

After noting their high concept and trouble aspects, players decide what
kind of signature weapon their character uses. Their **signature
weapon** aspect should reflect something unique about the weapon like
how it was received or a characteristic it possesses.

Example: [Staff of the River God] or [The Singing
Sword]

With those three aspects filled in, your heroic duo is ready to
adventure! Players fill in their other two aspects during play, over the
course of the first couple episodes. This allows the heroes to grow
together and talk about what aspects would best complement each other.### Aspects for the Warrior Princess

High Concept: [The Warrior Princess]

Trouble: [Mysterious Past]

Signature Weapon:

Open Slot:

Open Slot:

### Aspects for the Companion

High Concept: [The Companion]

Trouble: [A Simple Life Is Not For Me]

Signature Weapon:

Open Slot:

Open Slot:### Skill List

_**Forged by Fates**_ uses a modified version of the skill list from
[[Fate Core]]. The skills below have been renamed and recontextualized to
ensure that they make sense for the setting. All other skills are from
the base [[Fate Core]] list ([[Athletics]], [[Burglary]], [[Contacts]], [[Crafts]], [[Deceive]],
[[Empathy]], [[Fight]], [[Investigate]], [[Physique]], [[Provoke]], [[Rapport]], [[Resources]],
[[Stealth]], and [[Will]]) and remain unchanged.

#### Ride ([[Drive]])

Common travelers get from place to place by foot. But to get somewhere
quickly or haul a cart of goods, horses are the way to do it.

#### Mythology ([[Lore]])

Stories of divine intervention and miracles are common knowledge, but
only a lucky few have witnessed them. Villagers may have knowledge of a
god worshiped at their local temple, but only someone dedicated to study
or fortunate enough to survive godly encounters can recall the stories
and know the true signs of the gods and their meddling.

#### Archery ([[Shoot]])

Castle guardsmen, some bandits, and archers of a great army typically
possess some degree of aptitude with a bow. Not many other weapons can
be used at great distances.

#### Survival

_**Forged by Fates**_ uses
[Survival](../changing-skills-matter-survival/index.html) from The Fate
Codex, Volume 1, Issue 2. Without modern medicine, wounds and illness
often lead to death for ordinary mortals. This setting doesn't feature
magical healing, but Survival can justify or accelerate healing with
makeshift medical tools like splints and bandages.### Automatic Discovery

Since [[Notice]] is removed from the skill list, _**Forged by Fates**_ uses
the [Automatic
Discovery](../changing-skills-matter-survival/index.html#making-passive-discovery-cool)
system developed by Ryan Macklin (The Fate Codex, Volume 1, Issue 2).
Skills rated at Good (+3) or higher automatically succeed at rolls to
overcome or create advantages using passive discovery; skills rated at
Great (+4) or higher automatically succeed with style on such rolls.### Stress, Stunts, and Refresh

_**Forged by Fates**_ uses normal [[Fate Core]] stress tracks, stunts, and
refresh.

## NEW EXTRA: Favor of the Gods

Both the Companion and the Warrior Princess have attracted the attention
of the gods. If a god convinced such heroes to serve them it would make
them both more powerful. But one must not take a god's involvement
lightly, for they are quick to anger and their wrath is not easily
ignored. Gods are dangerous, passionate, and individualized. They have
wants, fears, and above all else, they harbor desires....

The Warrior Princess and her Companion each have a relationship with a
god of Young Earth. This affiliation is tenuous and ever-changing, but
the hero and the god are drawn to one another like moths to a flame.

After character creation, each player creates the god with which the
_other_ character has a relationship: the Companion creates the god
affiliated with the Warrior Princess and the Warrior Princess creates
the god affiliated with the Companion.

### God Aspects

The gods of Young Earth have powerful aspects: dominion, demeanor,
desire, and minions. These aspects work like character aspects. They can
be invoked or compelled, and they are true. **Dominion** is what a god
is a god "of," **demeanor** refers to what a god's personality is like,
a god's **desire** is what they want from the hero they are affiliated
with, and their **minions** are their messengers and errand runners.

#### Dominion

Gods are the embodiments of concepts and ideas. They have the power to
enhance and manifest elements related to their dominions. This aspect
can be a phrase about a philosophy or concept or a single word that
represents the god's field.

Example: `Rainmaker Mother`, `"Compassion Is Justice,"` `The God of War`

#### Demeanor

What is the god's natural disposition? How do they usually get what they
want? Some gods may have dominion over a violent ideal, but come across
as an intimate partner or childish fool. This aspect can be written as a
catchphrase or an archetype.

Example: `Seductive`, `Forceful Yet Friendly`, `Dangerous Prankster`

#### Desire

What does the god want from the hero and why? A god could want the hero
to be their champion on earth, or want the hero dead because the hero is
a reminder of something they hate. This aspect represents the god's
intentions for the PC within the story.

Example: `We Were a Great Team Once`, `Her Voice [[Will]] Be My Downfall`, `The Daughter I Always Wanted`

#### Minions

Gods don't have to act on their own; sometimes they have help. Animals,
people, or flora may be imbued with the power of a god to observe, spy,
or deliver a message. This aspect describes a physical thing or group of
things that exist in the real world.

Example: `Blue Flames`, `Watchful Ravens`, `Secret Cultists`

### Skills

Gods never roll unless they are manifest. If a god is talking to one of
the heroes in her head or appearing in dreams, then that god can only
invoke and compel aspects. But if a god manifests in front of the
heroes, the god has the exact same skills as their affiliated PC, but
every skill rank is increased by one.

### Stunts

All gods receive the same two stunts:

**Curse or Blessing:** Give a [[fate point]] to the PC on which you wish to
place an appropriate blessing or curse aspect. The aspect lasts the rest
of the session. This aspect has two free invokes.

**Better Things to Do:** When unopposed, a god can vanish or exit a
scene free of cost.

## NEW EXTRA: Cast the Die of Fate

More powerful than the gods are the machinations and whims of the Fates
themselves; the Warrior Princess and Companion have their attention as
well.

A previous adventure into the underworld left the three Fates indebted
to the Warrior Princess and her Companion. To repay them, the Fates gave
the heroes the gift of their sight. The heroes' fatelines are
intertwined with those of the gods, so the Fates only tell them the
gods' plan for the adventuring duo. How the Warrior Princess and
Companion use that knowledge is up to them....

### Determining the Fates

At the beginning of each session, each player takes two Fate dice of
different colors and assigns one of two Fates, either Clotho or
Lachesis, to each die. Once the dice are cast, find the result on the
table below and read what Atropos, the third Fate, has revealed about
the gods' involvement that session.

Atropos reveals that the gods will...

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             | *           |             |             |
|             |             | _Lachesis_* |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | **-**       | **0**       | **+**       |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| **Clotho**  | **-**       |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | ...bestow a | ...present  | ...drag you |
|             |             | gift.       | a unique    | into        |
|             |             |             | o           | another     |
|             |             |             | pportunity. | god's       |
|             |             |             |             | affairs.    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | **0**       |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | ...send a   | ...be       | ...leave    |
|             |             | messenger   | watching    | words       |
|             |             | with an     | you.        | hanging in  |
|             |             | omen.       |             | the wind.   |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | **+**       |             |             |             |
|             |             |             |             |             |
|             |             | ...visit    | ...use your | ...make you |
|             |             | you.        | friend.     | a promise.  |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

### Revealing the Gods

After the Fates have spoken, make these opportunities and prophecies
come up in play. Write each opportunity on an index card after it's been
rolled and keep it in front of you. Look for opportune or dramatic
moments for the gods to intervene in mortal affairs.

Here are some tips for bringing the Fates into play. If the gods...

**...bestow a gift:** The gods are fond of giving gifts to those they
favor, although "gifts" may be more trouble than they're worth.

> The god knows that heroes excel in war time and so bestows the gift of
> battle, on the eve of the peace-giving ceremony, to help the heroes
> prove their worth.

**...present a unique opportunity:** Power and fortune require hard
work, but the gods can show the way.

> The god reveals that the Queen has fallen ill and her people await the
> appointment of a successor. None of her kin are worthy, and a hero's
> counsel could influence her choice.

**...drag you into another god's affairs:** One god is trouble enough,
but those with the attention of multiple gods have leverage.

> The god and Fareos, the god of Romance, have a wager about to whom the
> Companion's heart truly belongs.

**...send a messenger with an omen:** Keep your eyes and mind open;
omens are a complicated gift that have driven men mad.

> A hooded figure speaks to a hero in a dream, "By the new moon your
> child will show their true face to the world."

**...are watching you:** The heroes know they're being watched by the
god's minions, but for what purpose? The gods have yet to show
themselves.

> Crimson hooded figures fade in and out of the crowd as the heroes pass
> through the village square.

**...leave words hanging in the wind:** Godly whispers signal the coming
of something big and eventful.

> As the Companion attends a royal wedding, the sweet words of a god
> tell her secrets about the bridegroom.

**...visit you:** The god takes a mortal form to pay you a visit because
the distance between you was too great; the god needs to be closer to
you.

> To make a point, the god switches the skills of the Companion and the
> Warrior Princess for a day.

**...use your friend:** The god uses a friend to get to you. Heroes make
friends on their travels, but without protection those friendships can
be fleeting.

> The Warrior Princess is in dire need while awaiting punishment from
> the king's court and the god's beautiful face is among the onlookers.

**...make you a promise:** The silver tongue of a god can be
double-edged. Be grateful that you know their intentions, but do not be
seduced.

> The god promises that he will grant anything the Warrior Princess
> desires if she can end this battle in his name.

## Opening Scene: Bandits in the Woods

The Warrior Princess and her companion never stay in one place for long.
They travel through towns seeing if their help is needed, or go to
places where they've heard trouble is already brewing.

The scene opens with the player characters on a beautiful forest path to
the city of Ithasi when they hear a commotion up ahead: steel against
steel and someone crying out for help. Bandits.

It becomes clear that these bandits aren't after gold; they're
intercepting a royal messenger and his escort of two men. The messenger
carries a military decree for a region-wide draft to fight the Cyclops.

This organized group of bandits is led by Basileios in opposition to the
forces of Queen Killias. Their farming village was forced to pay food
reparations that bankrupted their town and left them starving after a
fall crop went bad.

How will the players defeat the bandits? [[Will]] they help deliver the
message or try to change the Queen's mind?

### Opening Aspects and Opposition

Opening Aspects: `Forested Path`, `[Alone in the Woods]`, `[Political Mission]`
## Basileios and his Bandits

### Aspects

`[Farmers Looking for a [[Fight]]]`

### Skills

Average (+1) [[Fight]], [[Provoke]]

### Stress

□□□

## Thomas, the Messenger of Queen Killias

### Aspects

[Loyal to the Queen] • [Sharp Tongue] • [Well
Fed]

### Skills

Good (+3) [[Rapport]]
Average (+1) Ride
Poor (-1) [[Fight]]

### Stress

□## Middle Scene: The Queen's Request

However the characters decide to deal with the messenger and the
bandits, just outside the woods they run into the Queen's army. The
Warrior Princess is quickly recognized and greeted warmly by Queen
Killias herself.### Compel Reminder: Warrior Princess

When the Queen encounters the characters, compel Warrior Princess. Of
course she's spotted! Everyone knows who _she_ is.The Warrior Princess owes Queen Killias a debt ([Mysterious
Past] compel) and the Queen calls on her to keep her word.
Killias drafted her army to take down the Cyclops that destroyed a town
on the edge of her realm because her Warlord Andras is busy preparing
his men for a much larger attack. Queen Killias asks the heroes for
their help in slaying the Cyclops to ensure victory on both fronts.

[[Will]] the Warrior Princess and Companion agree to help the power-hungry
Queen to save other towns from the threat of a Cyclops?

### Opening Aspects and Skill Challenges

Opening Aspects: `[Army of Spectators]`, `[Political Pressure]`, `[Impending Battle]`
## Queen Killias

### Aspects

[Starving Farmlands and Mountains of Gold]

### Skills

Superb (+5) [[Will]]
Good (+3) [[Rapport]], [[Resources]]
Fair (+1) [[Deceive]], Mythology, [[Provoke]]
Poor (-1) [[Athletics]], [[Physique]]

### Stress

□□

## Killias' Squadron

### Aspects

`[Small Army]` • `[Drafted to Save Their Town]`

### Skills

Average (+1) [[Athletics]], [[Fight]]

### Stress

□□□

[[

## Final Scene: Wrath of the Cyclops

Whether the characters leave the Queen to her fate or agree to help, the
Cyclops ambushes them with lethal force as they travel past a steep rock
face. He attempts to destroy them and anyone they brought along for the
fight. When the characters get close to defeating him, the GM may choose
to have him concede ([[Fate Core]] System, page 167).

After his concession or as his dying breath, the Cyclops reveals that
his will was not his own---a masked figure compelled him to attack the
village. The Warrior Princess knows that if Queen Killias got wind of
this masked figure setting the Cyclops on her territory she would use it
to fuel her rapid expansion in the area.

[[Will]] the heroes track the masked figure immediately or will they come
across evidence of the mysterious figure elsewhere?

### Opening Aspects and Opposition

Opening Aspects: `[Mountainous Terrain]`, `[Bad Blood in the Air]`, `[Angry Cyclops]`
## The Cyclops

### Aspects

`Thick Leather Hide` • `Lonely Monster`

### Skills

Superb (+5) [[Fight]]
Good (+3) [[Athletics]], [[Physique]]
Poor (-1) [[Will]]

### Stress

□□□## Plot Hooks and Adventure Seeds

The opening episode of _**Forged by Fates**_ isn't the end of their
journey. The heroes may have stopped the Cyclops, but there are still
people throughout Young Earth who need their help. And don't forget the
impending issues! Here are a few plot hooks and adventure seeds to keep
the story going, varying the tone and pace of scenes after the initial
adventure:

### Masked Sorcerer

Rumors are spreading of a masked figure with the power to control
monsters and beasts. They've been causing quite a bit of trouble for the
Lords and Ladies of Young Earth. Survivors among the ruins of a scorched
castle reveal that this figure is in search of a monster so ancient and
terrible that it has faded from legend. Who is this mysterious figure
and what is their plan? Their trail could lead to anyone---perhaps it's
someone close to the heroes, someone from their past, someone who wishes
to upset the gods, or a god manifested.

### Bride of War

A king hopes to avoid war by marrying off his unwilling daughter to a
centaur war-prince. She has condemned the marriage as "unnatural" and
pleaded with her father for a human suitor. The king knows that forcing
his daughter into marriage is wrong, but fears that allowing war would
be worse. The centaurs are willing to offer their prince to the union,
but no one has yet spoken to him about the arrangement. How will the
centaur prince react and should the princess put aside her feelings for
peace?

### Warm Hands, Cold Heart

A suave healer finds himself in a world of trouble when he steals the
powers of a god. What happens when the god Shivaran comes looking for
her mate and instead finds a mortal unable to return the stolen powers?
[[Will]] the healer's charm be enough to win over the Companion or the
Warrior Princess and save him from Shivaran's wrath?

### Long Lost Sibling

Separated at birth, the Companion's twin Mycas has led a relatively
quiet life with a decent husband and well-mannered children, until
now---a vengeful god meddled with Mycas' life and turned the whole town
against her, just to punish the Companion. When the heroes wander into
town, the Companion is mistaken for Mycas and put on trial. Mycas
manages to get word to the Companion and implores her to clear her name
so she can go back to her peaceful life and forget all about this
trouble her estranged sister caused her. Can the heroes clear the twin's
name without revealing their true identities?### Episodic Play

You only have two players so try to keep each plot bite-sized enough to
fit the format and length of a television episode. For advice on how to
structure one-shots that feel like episodes, check out my article,
[Cooking Up a Fate One-Shot](../cooking-fate-one-shot/index.html), in
Volume 1, Issue 5 of The Fate Codex.## Pregenerated Characters

If your players wish to play pregenerated characters, you can use the
sample characters provided on the pages following.## Odell

Odell's steely eyes are burdened with the pain of her past, but she's
tough and resilient. She is unmatched in combat, but strives to be
diplomatic about disagreements and uphold local laws and tradition. Her
past is mysterious; lovers, enemies, children---to Odell, the past is
best kept in the past, but when it catches up to her she faces her
relationships head on and without cowardice. But it's Thea that makes
her confidence possible. With her Companion by her side, Odell can
escape the past and live a new life protecting the innocent and helping
those in need.

### Aspects

High Concept: `[Warrior Princess]`

Trouble: `[Mysterious Past]`

Signature Weapon: `[Cold Steel, Through and Through]`

Other Aspects: Open Slot • Open Slot

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Fight]]
Good (+3) [[Athletics]], [[Will]]
Fair (+2) [[Contacts]], [[Physique]], [[Provoke]]
Average (+1) Archery, Ride, [[Stealth]], Survival

### Stunts

`Sharp-Edged`. +2 to [[Fight]] rolls when you wield a sword or spear.

`Battle Cry`. When you enter a battle with a fearsome battle cry, roll
[[Provoke]] against your target's [[Will]]. If you succeed or tie, the target
cannot attack this round of the conflict. If you succeed with style, you
gain a boost against that target. If you fail, the target gets a +2 to
attacks against you due to your obvious advance.

`I Know a Guy...or Girl`. +2 to [[Create Advantage]] with [[Contacts]] when you
find someone with which you've had a previous romantic relationship.

### Stress

Mental: □□□□

Physical: □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) • Moderate (4) • Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Thea

Thea is a dreamer, but she's always kept her feet on the ground. She has
a strong sense of duty to Young Earth and all of its wonders; despite
the battles she's fought, she chooses not to kill. Thea often stumbles
into problems, although her clever and disarming nature earns her the
trust of those who can recognize her pure heart. But it's the Warrior
Princess that allows her to live her life to the fullest. With the
Warrior Princess by her side she can tell tales of sacrifice and love
while living the life of a true hero.

### Aspects

High Concept: `[The Companion]`

Trouble: `[A Simple Life Is Not for Me]`

Signature Weapon: `[The Philosopher's Staff]`

Other Aspects: Open Slot • Open Slot

### Skills

Great (+4) Survival
Good (+3) [[Empathy]], Mythology
Fair (+2) [[Athletics]], [[Deceive]], [[Rapport]]
Average (+1) [[Burglary]], [[Crafts]], [[Investigate]], [[Will]]

### Stunts

`Philosopher's Staff`. When you use your staff to defend against someone,
use [[Athletics]] instead of [[Fight]].

`Bardic Training`. When creating an advantage by telling a story or
singing a song about your adventures with Odell using Mythology, add an
extra free invoke to the aspect you create, even on a tie.

`Crafter of the People`. +2 to [[Create Advantage]] by using [[Crafts]] to make
something useful for others in a scene.

### Stress

Mental: □□□□

Physical: □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) • Moderate (4) • Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3[[## Ares, God of War

### Aspects

`Dominion: God of War`

`Demeanor: Deceitful Seductor`

`Desire: "We Were Once a Great Match"`

`Minions: Ravens and Crows`

## Faylett, God of [[Lore]]

### Aspects

`Dominion: God of [[Lore]]`

`Demeanor: Bored and Clever`

`Desire: Thea [[Will]] Be My New Muse`

`Minions: Field Mice`

### NPCs:

Use these NPCs throughout your _**Forged by Fates**_ campaign!## Valthef

Valthef has the gift of magic and foresight. She tries her best to make
a modest living and stay out of too much trouble, but no matter where
she moves someone is always in need of her services...or at least that's
what they convince themselves. More often than not, Valthef's clients
leave happy and come back upset and wanting a refund, but magic doesn't
work like that.

### Aspects

High Concept: `[The Witch of the Woods]`

Trouble: `[The Townsfolk Are Never Satisfied]`

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Will]]
Good (+3) Mythology, Survival
Fair (+2) [[Burglary]], [[Investigate]], [[Stealth]]
Average (+1) [[Deceive]], [[Empathy]], [[Fight]], [[Provoke]]

### Stunts

Witch of Myth and Ore. When creating something magical, use Mythology
instead of [[Crafts]].

The Mirror Never Lies. When creating an advantage by telling a story
about an ancient myth to manipulate your victim, add an extra free
invoke to the aspect you create.

Harmless Old Hag. Spend a [[fate point]] to enter any peaceful crowded scene
disguised as an old woman.

Curse the Gods. Once per session you can call on the Fates to learn of
the gods' plans for a hero.

### Stress

Mental: □□□□

Physical: □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) • Moderate (4) • Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 2

## Dimitri

Dimitri is a handsome and cunning salesman who always manages to find
the perfect item you didn't know you needed. But Dimitri often finds
himself drawn as much to his clients as they are to him. Sexual
orientation doesn't matter when it comes to matters of love, and his
heart is big enough for many lovers.

### Aspects

High Concept: `[Merchant of Ithasi]`

Trouble: `[One Too Many Lovers]`

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Deceive]]
Good (+3) [[Empathy]], [[Rapport]]
Fair (+2) [[Burglary]], [[Contacts]], [[Resources]]
Average (+1) [[Crafts]], [[Investigate]], Ride, [[Stealth]]

### Stunts

`That Smile`. When you [[Deceive]] someone by flirting add a +2.

`True of Heart`. When creating an advantage to help a lover, add an extra
free invoke to the aspect you create.

`Know Just the Thing`. When using [[Contacts]] to locate an item someone is
looking for add +2.

### Stress

Mental: □□□□

Physical: □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) • Moderate (4) • Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3
