---
date created: 2022-10-18 08:07
tags:
- '#4'
- '#4](index.html)'
---

Fate Codex

# LifeGard Research Station #4

_by Carrie Harris_

When I was a kid, I wanted to be a rodeo star. Back then, my worst
problem was trying to talk my parents into driving me to my aunt's horse
farm so I could practice breakaway roping. I imagined myself roping
cattle with a deft flick of my wrist or flying around barrels while the
crowd cheered my name. Rodeo was the only thing I cared about.

Then the dead began to rise.

My family moved to the farm, where the remote location and cold weather
kept the zombie attacks thin. At first, I was thrilled, but it was a
hard and lonely childhood. It's not easy to be a rodeo star when the
only audience is in your head. I was seventeen when the LifeGard
Corporation came knocking, recruiting for their new Safe Zone Compounds,
and I volunteered without a second thought. I never expected that my
rodeo skills would be the thing that got me in. I was housed. Educated.
Safe.

For fifteen years, zombies were a controllable menace. But that all
changed one fateful day.

---

I hopped atop my horse, my lab coat flapping. My partner, Cantrell, gave
me the kind of grin that ensured his bunk was never lonely at night, the
one that crinkled the corners of his eyes, despite knowing that it had
never worked on me and never would.

"'Bout time you got here, Senior Biochemist," he said in his slow drawl
as his horse, Ladybell, shied away from me. She'd always been skittish.
"Didja fall asleep at your lab table?"

"Who got your panties all in a bunch?" I asked, settling myself more
firmly in my saddle and patting Frost's neck. He tossed his head,
wanting to get this over with so he could get back to his warm stall.
The weather kept teetering on the cusp of winter without quite
committing. I was already yearning for spring.

Cantrell grinned. The other techs always talked about how dreamy he was,
but I couldn't get there. He was like my brother. Plus, it was hard to
get worked up over someone after you saw him sweaty and wild-eyed,
puking his guts out after going hand-to-hand with a zombie schoolgirl.
Much better to not get involved. Much better to stick with witty banter
and verbal one-upmanship.

"I'd answer that, but you always say you don't want the details," he
said, flashing his ID badge at the barn scanner and leading the way out.

I decided to ignore that statement. "So what's the situation? I had to
finish processing my samples or they'd over-fixate by the time we got
back. I missed the radio alert."

"I don't speak lab rat, Grant," he said. "You know that. We've got an OP
breach. Approximately five zombies on site."

"Ooooh. They actually made it through the outer perimeter? We got us
some talented undead this time."

I let out a huff of impressed breath and brought Frost up to a canter.
All 200 residents of the Safe Zone pulled double duty.
Everyone---scientists, janitors, farmers, the whole kit and
kaboodle---was combat trained. That was the price we paid for safety. We
always followed the rules, because when you didn't people died.

It was a tough thing, but we all knew what we were up against. We'd
known when we volunteered to staff the new post located well beyond the
safety borders, in the hopes of creating a cure or an immunization or
something. We weren't the only ones. There was an Envirogeneics compound
about five miles up the road. But the two groups, working for competing
companies, didn't mix well at all.

---

Cantrell and I were floaters. The best combatants were assigned to
two-person roaming teams. We went where the action was hottest. With
only five walkers, one of the other teams had probably neutralized them
by now, but there might still be a live one. I'd spread the word last
night at mess that I needed a new test specimen; hopefully someone had
remembered.

The base was quiet as we closed on the inner perimeter. I released my
rope from the pommel just in case, gripping it loosely in one hand as I
checked for kinks. Cantrell fell back, flanking me, rifle at the ready.
He'd been a sniper in the military, back when the United States was a
thing. If any zeds got too close, he'd deal with it, but that rarely
happened.

I always got a rush of adrenaline when we got a call, but I'd never felt
afraid.

Not until that day, anyway.

We rounded the med building just as the sentry on the inner fence---the
research director of my lab---raised a gun to her shoulder. I could see
the lurching forms of the undead on the other side of the fence, trying
desperately to get at her through the chain link. The muzzle of the gun
dipped and swerved as panic interfered with her weapons training.
Littleton had never been a natural combatant, but she was a whiz with
viral transmission theories.

I dug my heels into Frost's ribcage, and he responded instantly to my
silent command, surging forward into a smooth gallop. I kept the lasso
out, hoping that I wouldn't have to use it on someone I considered a
friend, but if Littleton got infected.... I didn't kill zombies---that
was Cantrell's job. I captured them when I could, used them to test
potential cures. I didn't want to use Littleton as a test subject. It
was hard to see people you knew reduced to shells. I'd done it plenty
and didn't like it at all.

The fence rattled, and she squeezed off a shot. One of the zombies on
the other side toppled over in slow, jerky stages. But they kept coming,
all mindless hunger and parched flesh and hungry, searching mouths.
Where were the other teams? How had these walkers gotten so far into the
compound? None of these questions could have good answers, but there was
no time to dwell. Undead fingers twined in the chain link, pulling and
twisting the metal as Littleton froze.

"Veer right," barked Cantrell.

We'd worked together long enough; I knew what he wanted. I peeled off to
the side, out of his line of fire. He made quick work of it. Zombies
went down like dominoes. Easy peasy.

Muzzle pointed carefully at the ground, Littleton turned to face me. My
grin faded when I saw her expression. Her brow was lined with fear, her
eyes wide, her normally sallow cheeks blotchy. She held her hand up
toward me, the palm dripping onto the ground. Staining it red.

"Stay back!" she said. "Don't come any closer!"

"Grant, stay back!" Cantrell echoed, his voice high with worry. His
usual unflappability was replaced with borderline panic. He'd gotten
like this before when he'd thought I was in danger, and I couldn't
decide whether to be offended at his lack of faith in my ability to
handle myself or whether to think he cared about me after all.

"Were you bit or sprayed?" I demanded, holding my lasso at the ready. If
the change began, I wouldn't have much time. My eyes were scanning her
body, looking for the telltale tremor.

"I don't think so," she said, her voice shaking anyway. "I didn't put my
fingers through the fence. I got hit by shrapnel."

"Sorry about that," said Cantrell, but he didn't drop his rifle. None of
us expected him to.

"So you're good, then," I said, relaxing a little bit. "Hallelujah."

"Not sure about that," Cantrell put in roughly. "No offense, Littleton.
But you know how easy it is to get contaminated."

"No offense taken," she said. "There's no harm in waiting."

But there was. A flash of movement over her shoulder caught my eye. I
blinked, trying to make sense of what I was seeing. A zombie was running
at the fence. Fast. Like, fast enough to give Frost a run for his money.
I'd never seen a zed run before. And it wore a LifeGard jacket. Blue.
Whoever that had been, they'd worked in Mechanics with Cantrell. It was
hard to make a firm ID, though, what with all the blood and gore on its
face.

"Oh shit," I said as the thing threw itself at the fence with enough
force to put a dent in the post.

"Down!" yelled Cantrell.

He didn't hesitate despite the fact that the zed must have been one of
his friends. I went to ground as the gun roared over my head. I was far
enough away from the fence to avoid the spray of blood as the shot hit
home.

Littleton was all too close.

Contaminated fluids spattered her face.

"I want to be a test subject," she gasped, but she didn't get much
further than that.

Her mouth locked itself into a grimace as the virus exploded through her
system. I whipped my lasso out, swung it, and released with mechanical
precision. The reinforced rope slipped over her torso as she jittered
and jerked with the force of the biological changes taking over her
body. We only had moments before she attacked. Every second was
precious.

"Frost, cage!" I shouted, leaping to the ground. The stallion bolted for
the containment cages, dragging the still-changing zombie behind him
through the dirt. Cantrell cantered past me, holding out an arm, and I
swung up to ride pillion behind him. We followed along to make sure
Littleton didn't get loose. It happened sometimes.

I radioed an update in to Command, trying to sound calm. But I wasn't.
The virus had mutated again. Which meant that PB-17, our promising new
inoculation, probably wasn't going to do shit. I'd try, of course. But I
knew better than to get my hopes up.

Frost entered the cages, dragging Littleton through the dirt and
slamming her into one of the posts anchoring the gate. For a tense
moment, I thought the lasso was going to break, but it didn't happen.
Littleton rolled into the containment pen. The gates clanged shut,
trapping her inside. She snarled and threw herself against the
reinforced mesh, teething working hungrily. She wasn't as strong as the
other zed had been. Not yet.

I dropped off Ladybell's back and hurried around the pen to Frost,
patting him with soothing hands, but he didn't quiet until I detached
him from the thing on the other side of the fence.

"Stand guard," I shouted to Cantrell. "I'm going for the new
inoculation!"

It wasn't standard protocol, but I knew the PB-16 in the cage box wasn't
going to work. PB-17, which I'd been testing just a few minutes earlier,
probably wouldn't do any better. But the information I'd get analyzing
the cells in the lab might lead me to PB-18. Littleton's samples might
be essential to our survival, especially if zeds infected with the new
strain could break down our perimeter fences like they were straws.

---

My card at the ready, I flashed through the auto-checkpoint without
slowing, threw open the door, and stopped short. The lab was in
shambles. Delicate and expensive machinery shattered on the ground.
Glass everywhere, surrounded by puddles of what was probably infectious
material. I took an instinctive step back.

And then he charged me.

The most frightening part wasn't that there was a zombie in my lab. It
was that I didn't recognize him, and when you live in a compound with
only 200 other people, you recognize everyone. He was rugged, all slabs
of muscle and dark hair, dressed in a black shirt and pants. In one
hand, he clutched a file folder.

He charged me.

I snatched up the mallet from the emergency box near the door and threw
it. It was a delaying tactic at best; the hardened rubber bounced off
his forehead. Made him stagger. It bought me enough time to retreat as
far back as I could.

I drew my sidearm, stooped behind the arching plastic of the fume hood,
and fired. The zed's head exploded, spraying infectious material all
over the place. On the hood. But not---after a thorough examination---on
me.

That had been too close, and it took me a moment to get a hold of
myself. None of this made sense. How had a zed gotten in here? And what
was he doing with one of my research files?

I tamped down the panic and made myself think. He must have gotten
infected after he entered the lab. Maybe with one of my samples? It
looked like the careless fool had been trying to make off with...it
looked like the test results on PB-17. I could imagine how it had
gone---the man hurrying through the unfamiliar lab, worried he might get
caught, and knocking over the samples I'd been working on right before
the alert. The infection blazing through his system. The wild flailing
of his body, dashing delicate equipment to the floor.

And that guy did look familiar the more I thought about it. I'd seen him
at the Envirogeneics compound. We'd gone there for a meeting that almost
ended in bloodshed. I didn't understand how we could be fighting each
other when there were so few humans left, but it seemed like I was in
the minority.

Only one explanation made sense. This man caused the breach, just to
steal my research. If I could have kicked him without infecting myself,
I would have. How many people had he killed today? And all because
they'd accused Littleton of stealing their research, and she'd scoffed,
and...

The whole thing disgusted me. I wished I could ask her about it, but the
destruction of my lab had doomed her. Maybe her predicament was even her
own fault. Maybe we'd been fighting each other just as much as we had
the zombies.

I snorted and said out loud, "That's ridiculous," as if speaking the
words might make them true. Except that I knew how much money a cure was
worth. And there were weird things about life here that I'd never been
able to explain. The off-limits areas at the Central Office. The way
rule-breakers disappeared without a word. The way Research Director
Littleton had suddenly changed the direction of our research to this new
and promising formula.

If I'd been following protocol, I would have sealed myself in the lab
and waited for a decon team to release me, but if I hadn't changed yet,
I was pretty sure I wouldn't. And I hadn't really entered the lab, not
all the way. I sprinted back toward the pen. As I grew closer, I heard
the blast of Cantrell's gun. His face went slack with relief as I ran
up.

"Thank god," he said. "I was just coming for you. I thought something
must have happened."

"No, no, no!" I yelled, looking at Littleton's lifeless body slumped
inside the cage.

"It's okay, Phoebe," said Cantrell, pulling me up against him.

I could feel his heartbeat, soothing and strong. But I refused to be
lulled into complacency. There was too much mourning to do, too much to
reconstruct. Too many questions to ask. I was beginning to suspect that
LifeGard wasn't the sanctuary I thought it was. There was no way
Littleton had been working on her own. Envirogeneics wasn't blameless
either. Were we all just pawns in a power struggle to them? Did they
care less about our survival than they did about the bottom line?

Innocent people had died today, all in the name of greed. I tilted my
head to look up at Cantrell. I wanted to confide my suspicions to him. I
wanted to trust him.

But could I?

He'd saved my life too many times not to. So I took a chance. I took a
deep breath.

I said, "I have a theory, and you're not going to like it."

He didn't. But he listened. And I knew that whatever happened next, we
would face it together.## Phoebe Grant

### aspects

High Concept: [Zombie Hunting Biochemist]
Trouble: [Idealist in a Capitalist World]
Other: [Not My First Rodeo Must Find a Cure] • [My Trusty
Steed]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Investigate]]
Good (+3) [[Lore]], Ride
Fair (+2) [[Athletics]], [[Shoot]], [[Will]]
Average (+1) [[Empathy]], [[Notice]], [[Physique]], [[Rapport]]

### Stunts

**Quick Analysis.** Because Grant understands the infectious stages of
the zombie virus, no zombie she can see can act before her in an
exchange.

**Well-Stocked Lab.** +2 to [[overcome]] actions made in her lab with
[[Investigate]] and [[Lore]].

**Wannabe Rodeo Star.** Grant can use her Ride skill when attempting to
lasso zombies.

### Stress

Physical □□□ Mental □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3

## Ray Cantrell

### aspects

High Concept: [Zombie Sniper]
Trouble: [Soft Spot for Phoebe]
Other: [Former Military Man Disarming Grin] • [Fight First, Puke Later]

### Skills

Great (+4) [[Shoot]]
Good (+3) [[Rapport]], [[Stealth]]
Fair (+2) [[Fight]], [[Notice]], [[Physique]]
Average (+1) [[Athletics]], [[Crafts]], Ride, [[Will]]

### Stunts

**Sniper Rifle.** Cantrell gains a +2 bonus to attacks made with a
rifle.

**Dreamy Ex-Soldier.** Cantrell can use [[Rapport]] in place of [[Contacts]]
when interacting with other ex-military or with people who might be
attracted to him.

**Tactical Teamwork.** Cantrell gets a +2 bonus to create an advantage
using [[Shoot]] when working with an ally in combat.

### Stress

Physical □□□ Mental □□□

### Consequences

Mild (2) | Moderate (4) | Major (6)

### Notes

Refresh: 3